Transfer Admissions
Finish with ODUGlobal
We want to help you finish your bachelor's degree online. Our enrollment team is ready to help you through the admissions process.
Image
Free Unofficial Transfer Evaluation
Our enrollment team can provide a free unofficial transfer evaluation of any previous college work.  Courses in which grades of C or better were earned can be considered for transfer.  We can also review your military training/JST.
How It Works
Submit a contact form on our website. An ODUGlobal enrollment coach will contact you.
Gather unofficial transcripts from all colleges you attended in the past. If you previously transferred credits to another school, we'll need the transcripts from the original school, too.
Follow your coach's instructions to submit transcripts for evaluation. An ODUGlobal enrollment coordinator will connect with you to discuss your options. It may be best to meet on the phone or virtually so we can best help you succeed.
We can review unofficial transcripts now. If you decide to apply to ODU, you will need to provide official transcripts for review.
Contact Our Enrollment Team
U.S. military servicemember or dependent?
Yes
Program of Interest
I have credits I'd like to transfer
By submitting this form, I consent to receive calls, texts, emails and advertising from Old Dominion University using the contact information provided, including mobile numbers and email addresses, which may be sent with automated or pre-recorded technology. Message & data rates may apply. Consent is not a condition of purchase and I may opt-out at any time.*
NCM Referral
reCAPTCHA helps prevent automated form spam.
The submit button will be disabled until you complete the CAPTCHA.
Credit for Military Experience
Are you an active duty service member or veteran? Your experience and training may count for academic credit at ODU. Contact us by completing the form for a free unofficial transfer evaluation, or to discuss pathways that make it easier to gain credit for things you already know.
Undergraduate Credit for Ranks E6-E9
College Partners and Transfer Agreements
ODU has agreements with the Virginia Community College System and select other colleges across the country that make it easier to transfer to ODU. You may even be able to start taking ODU classes while you finish your associate degree.
EmpowerU Cost Planner
Restart
Truly understanding tuition and fees is important in your decision-making. The 
					ODUGlobal cost calculator provides a personalized estimate of educational expenses. By 
					entering details like residency status, program of study, and credits, you’ll see an 
					estimated breakdown of tuition and fees.
What's your story?
What do you want to study?
Degree Level
I have lived in Virginia for 12 consecutive months
I have not lived in Virginia for 12 consecutive months
Select the options above to generate your academic story here.
How many credits are you planning to take next semester?
1 1
Drag the slider to explore cost differences.
Your Semester Cost:
$4
Additional Fees
You may be able to reduce your overall cost for a bachelor's degree by transferring credits from other colleges
						                 or military experience. Get a free unofficial transfer evaluation before you apply! Contact our enrollment team to get started.
Contact Enrollment
Program Details
*This tool is intended to provide our students with a reasonable estimate of their costs to attend Old Dominion University for a semester and may not reflect the complete cost of tuition, fees and other charges. This calculator is provided for reference only and all rates are subject to change.
Calculate Cost
FAQs
Will My Credits Transfer to ODU?
Your enrollment coach will be able to answer all of your transfer questions. To take a look at where you may stand in the meantime, check out our course equivalency tool . Here, you'll find equivalencies for all courses that transfer to ODU from any accredited U.S. college or university.
If your courses are not listed, please contact us or reach out to your ODUGlobal enrollment coordinator to see whether those credits will apply.
Are You Ready to Apply?
You've talked to an enrollment coach. You have a plan for success. It's time to apply ! Remember your coach can help you through every step of the application process.
Do You Have Credits from a VCCS School?
Old Dominion University and the Virginia Community College System (VCCS) have a guaranteed admission agreement designed so that qualified VCCS students can make a seamless transfer to ODU.
Want to learn more about dual enrollment? Contact us to discuss your transfer opportunities. You can also check out the VCCS Transfer Guide to learn more.
Not Sure Where to Start?
There's a lot to consider when starting an online bachelor's degree program. Our enrollment coordinators can answer your questions and help you create a plan to take classes in a way that saves you time and money.
We'll also provide a free, unofficial transcript evaluation for any college credits you may already have. Whether you're transferring or starting a new bachelor's degree, we will help you every step of the way.
Old Dominion University
Gornto Hall, Norfolk, VA 23529
Footer
