Web Conference Courses
Getting Started
As a registered student, you can log in to your live ODUGlobal courses with any standard web browser such as Chrome, Firefox, Safari, or Edge.
You'll need a webcam and a headset (or speakers and microphone). We recommend using a headset to help you concentrate on class.
We want all students to have an opportunity to listen, learn, and participate in ODUGlobal classes. To make this happen, we ask our students to follow a few simple guidelines.
Read More About Class Etiquette
Web Conferencing Class Technology
Zoom is the main app used for our online synchronous (live) web conferencing classes. Adobe Connect is still in use for a select number of programs (education leadership, human services, engineering management and engineering technology).
Our live online web conferencing classes give you the ability to:
See and hear the instructor and other online students
Access class recordings and audio transcripts for review
Share your screen to make a presentation in class
Stream live classes on PC and Mac desktop computers and on mobile devices with a high-speed Internet connection
Your instructor will let you know which technology your class is using and where to log in. Please contact the department or your instructor for information regarding Adobe Connect.
Get Started in Zoom
ODU provides all students with the ability to have your own Zoom meeting room. To help with your education, you have access to features in the Zoom Pro License, such as:
No restrictions on how long a meeting can last
Sharing your whole screen or a single application for a presentation
Recording your meetings on your computer or in the cloud
Features like chat, annotation, white boards, and breakout rooms
Password protection and the ability to restrict your meetings to ODU Zoom users
Zoom is a great way to meet online with classmates for study sessions, group work, or tutoring. Your instructors may hold virtual office hours and advising appointments in Zoom, too.
Minimum requirements
Zoom is compatible with Windows and Apple desktop and laptop computers, plus iOS and Android mobile devices.
For desktop or laptop computers, we recommend downloading and installing the Zoom client app. You should also have the latest version of your web browser, such as Firefox, Chrome, or Safari.
After you download the app on your computer or mobile device, visit our Zoom Test Link to check your Zoom settings and set up your audio and video.
If you don’t have a high-speed internet connection or other needed equipment, we have education partners that offer various services to help you. See if there are any partners close to you. Services vary by location.
Technical Support
We're here to help, 24/7.
Email the help desk at itshelp@odu.edu
Call 757-683-3192
