Graduate Courses
PUBH 200 Principles of Public Health (3 Credit Hours)
Overview of the principles, practices, and science of public health in the world. This course focuses on origins, evolution, structure and administration of public health science. Exploration and discussion of the core functions of public health - biostatistics, environmental sciences, epidemiology, health policy and management sciences, and social and behavioral sciences - will be instructed.
PUBH 301 Principles of Environmental Health (3 Credit Hours)
An introduction to the chemical, physical and biological factors affecting human health and well-being. The emphasis is on application of controls to prevent disease and maximize environmental quality. Cross-listed with ENVH 301 .
Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in ENGL 110C
PUBH 318 Principles of Nutrition (3 Credit Hours)
Course designed especially for those entering the health education or health care field, covering the physiology of each of the major body systems as a basis for understanding those aspects of its function that reflect the importance of various nutrients.
Prerequisites: CHEM 105N - CHEM 106N or CHEM 121N - CHEM 122N and CHEM 123N - CHEM 124N ; BIOL 240 , BIOL 241 , BIOL 250 or BIOL 251 , or permission of the instructor
PUBH 320 Health Equity and Disability Culture (3 Credit Hours)
This course will explore the history of health equity and disability and how prejudice and discrimination against people with disabilities impact health. Students will learn how to apply health equity frameworks, theories, and research to address disability-specific models of health disparities and to achieve health equity in populations with disabilities.
Prerequisites: PUBH 200 with a grade of C or higher
PUBH 335 Population Health (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides a population-based approach to professional work in disease management, chronic care management and politics, in addition to students studying public health, health policy, quality and patient safety, health care administration, medicine, nursing, pharmacy, social work and other related clinical professions.
Prerequisites: PUBH 200 with a grade of C or higher
PUBH 360 Introduction to Global Health (3 Credit Hours)
This course introduces students to health-care delivery systems of non-Western countries, specifically developing countries. The various factors that influence health-care planning and delivery of health services are addressed.
Prerequisites: PUBH 200
PUBH 390 The U.S. Healthcare Delivery System (3 Credit Hours)
The uniqueness of the U.S. healthcare delivery system will be explored in terms of a systems framework and its complexity. The basic characteristics that differentiate the U.S. healthcare delivery system from that of other countries will be presented. An understanding of the U.S. health care system has specific implications for health services managers.
Prerequisites: PUBH 200 with a grade of C or higher
PUBH 395 Topics in Public Health (3 Credit Hours)
Study of selected topics.
Prerequisites: A declared major in the University or approval of the program director
PUBH 403W Social and Behavioral Aspects of Public Health (3 Credit Hours)
The course will emphasize the importance of social context and cultural construction, social and behavioral foundations of public health and examine current issues in health from a social and behavioral sciences perspective. The course uses a social ecological framework to address multilevel influences on health and enlarge the dominant 'risk factor' approach to health behavior.  This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: ENGL 110C and ENGL 211C with a C or better, PUBH 335 or HLSC 335 , and PUBH 390 or HLSC 390
PUBH 415 One Health-One Medicine (3 Credit Hours)
This course will teach students the applications of multidisciplinary competencies towards solving human health challenges. The course will identify all areas of global health issues that require human, veterinary and environmental applications for solutions.
Prerequisites: public health major or minor
PUBH 421 Leadership in Public Health (3 Credit Hours)
The course will introduce students to the main theories of leadership in public health covering key concepts and strategies using the six levels of leadership framework. The course will explore how individual, team, organizational, community, professional and global leadership impact population and public health.
Prerequisites: PUBH 335 or HLSC 335 , PUBH 390 or HLSC 390 , and a declared major in the BSPH program
PUBH 422 Health, Culture and Diversity-Reducing Disparities in Public Health (3 Credit Hours)
The course will introduce students to the main theories of culture, health and diversity and examines what is meant by culture, the ways in which culture intersects with health issues, how public health efforts can benefit by understanding and working with cultural processes, and a brief selection of conceptual tools and research methods that are useful in identifying relationships between culture and health. The course will also include practical guidelines for incorporating cultural understanding in public health settings and examples of programs where that has occurred.
Prerequisites: public health major or minor
PUBH 425 Health Aspects of Aging (3 Credit Hours)
Identifies major issues and problems in meeting health care needs of the aged. Emphasis on role of social assets and supports in determining effects of life changes on the aging process.
Prerequisites: PUBH 328, PUBH 335 , and PUBH 390
PUBH 430W Community Health Resources and Health Promotion (3 Credit Hours)
Designed to provide information about community health resources. This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: ENGL 110C and ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C with a grade of C or better and a declared major in the University or approval of the program director
PUBH 440 Finance and Budgeting in Healthcare (3 Credit Hours)
This course covers financial management functions in healthcare organizations including operating and capital budgeting processes along with budgeting and financial controls.
Prerequisites: Junior standing and a declared major in the BSPH Public Health program
PUBH 445 Health Services Research Methods (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on health services research and its assessment abilities and application in health care and public health. Topics include the use of EXCEL, SAS, and SPSS to analyze data. An exploration of the issues and challenges of health services research for health related organizations and other organizations. Statistical procedures and practices will also be conducted.
Prerequisites: STAT 130M
PUBH 448 Epidemiology and Biostatistics (3 Credit Hours)
An introductory course in the principles and practices of epidemiology and the application of statistical and mathematical design and analysis of health research studies for the understanding and control of population health and disease with emphasis on environmental applications.  Cross-listed with ENVH 448 .
Prerequisites: STAT 130M , MATH 162M , and a declared major in the BSPH program
PUBH 450 Public and Community Health Administration (3 Credit Hours)
A review of the principles and practice of administering public and community health organizations and programs at federal, state, and local levels. Constitutional, statutory and administrative bases for organizing and conducting public/community health programs will be discussed.
Prerequisites: A major in the BS in Public Health program or BSHS Health Services Administration program
PUBH 461 Managerial Epidemiology (3 Credit Hours)
This course will blend theory and application of epidemiology. This course will also provide a comprehensive introduction to epidemiology and explain how to use epidemiological concepts and tools to improve decisions about the management of health services.
Prerequisites: PUBH 335 , PUBH 390 , and a declared major in the University or approval of the program director
PUBH 465 Policy and Politics of Health (3 Credit Hours)
This course will explore both health policy and the politics of health. Students will develop an understanding of the systematic and analytical framework for developing health and health care policy issues.
Prerequisites: A major in Public Health
PUBH 468 Internship (1-3 Credit Hours)
The internship will allow a student new to the health administration field or public health field to complete a capstone internship to gain entry skills for a beginning career pathway in the profession. The course is intended to provide field experience and assimilation of the theoretical aspects learned in the coursework in a practical/work setting. A minimum of 200 hours is required for the 3-credit internship.
Prerequisites: Major in BS in Public Health or BSHS in Health Services Administration and senior standing
PUBH 475 Healthcare Marketing (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides a basic understanding of marketing in a health care setting. It will cover the following: the history of marketing in a health care setting, health care markets, marketing techniques, and leadership skills in managing and supporting the marketing efforts.
Prerequisites: a declared major in the University or approval of the program director
PUBH 480 Health Ethics and the Law (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides the students with a basic knowledge of health law and examines legal issues confronting health services administrators in various health care environments.
Prerequisites: A declared major in the BSPH Public Health program
PUBH 485 Public Health Informatics (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on healthcare informatics (information systems) and applications in health care organizations. It provides an overview of health information system concepts, management, and integration of technology in healthcare organizations.
Prerequisites: Declared BSPH major
PUBH 495 Topics in Public Health (1-3 Credit Hours)
This course provides the opportunity for the study of selected topics in public/community health, including informatics, under the supervision of a faculty member.
Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor
PUBH 600 Environment, Society and Health (3 Credit Hours)
Introduces students to 21st century environmental health issues and challenges, and examines how they affect health in the region, nation and world. Topics include: air/water quality, food safety and food-borne illness, antibiotic resistance, emergency preparedness and response, sea level rise, vulnerable populations, radiation safety and health, pediatric environmental health, tick-borne illness, hazardous substances, environmental health policy and practice, and environmental risk communication.
PUBH 602 Environmental Health Law, Justice and Governance (3 Credit Hours)
An overview of environmental health law and governance at the local, state, federal and international levels. Students examine the environmental health policy-making process and how laws, regulations and treaties are made and implemented. Students also will be familiarized with U.S. environmental public health statutes, key institutions and agencies, current controversies, issues of environmental justice, and major international treaties related to environmental health.
Prerequisites: PUBH 600 and PUBH 610
PUBH 610 Introduction to Public Health Practice (1 Credit Hour)
Provides an introduction to the multidisciplinary field of public health by examining the history, structure and functions of the public health system.  Course is organized around the three core functions of public health: assessment, policy development and assurance while focusing on elements of the basic public health disciplines.
PUBH 611 Social and Behavioral Sciences for Public Health (3 Credit Hours)
Students will learn about different theoretical perspectives and how to apply appropriate social and behavioral models to public health programs. Topics discussed include social inequalities in health status related to culture, race, social class, gender, and the critical intersection between social risk factors, behavioral risk factors, and the development and implementation of public health interventions.
PUBH 622 Research Methods in Public Health (3 Credit Hours)
This is a course in research methods that will provide an overview of the basic principles of research design, methods, measurement, data collection and data management in the field of public health. Students will learn the differences between quantitative, qualitative and mixed-methods approaches to public health research, as well as how to formulate and evaluate research questions.
PUBH 624 Systems Thinking and Health Management (3 Credit Hours)
Students will learn the practice of systems thinking, which includes the ability to integrate multiple perspectives and synthesize them into a framework or model that encompasses the various ways in which a system might react to policy choices.
PUBH 632 Environmental and Occupational Health Risk Assessment (3 Credit Hours)
This course is an introduction to quantitative and qualitative risk analysis and examines the fundamental aspects of risk, focusing on environmental, occupational, and public health risk. Hazard identification, exposure assessment, dose-response evaluation, risk characterization, and risk communication are emphasized.
PUBH 640 Health Disparities and Social Justice (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides an introduction to the topic of global health disparities through an in‐depth examination and discussion of the relationship between social injustice and inequitable health outcomes. Students will be introduced to the social and environmental determinants of health disparities and the pathways and mechanisms leading to inequitable health outcomes in vulnerable groups, as well as strategies for addressing these determinants to improve health.
PUBH 643 Principles of Toxicology (3 Credit Hours)
An introduction to the fundamentals of toxicology with emphasis on the interaction of environmental and industrial chemicals with humans are studied. Exposure, dose response, kinetics and distribution of toxicants, metabolism of toxic agents, factors that affect toxicity and introductory chemical carcinogenesis are discussed.
PUBH 690 Integrative Learning Experience (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides a culminating learning experience in the MPH curriculum, which gives students the opportunity to demonstrate integration of foundational and concentration competencies and to apply the knowledge and skills achieved in their study of public health. The learning outcome is the demonstrated mastery, via course assignments, of core public health and discipline- or concentration-specific competencies.
PUBH 746 Principles of Epidemiology (3 Credit Hours)
This course covers basic epidemiologic methods and research study design such as case-control and cohort studies, randomized trials, risk estimation, and causal inferences. Content also covers the use of epidemiology in public health practice, links to health policy, and the factors and associations determining the distribution of disease in the population.
PUBH 778 Global Environmental Health (3 Credit Hours)
The goal of this course is to guide students with a public health perspective to develop skills to identify and analyze environmental health problems globally. It is designed to provide knowledge on recognizing and evaluating major environmental health issues and risk factors in developed and developing countries by using group discussions and real-life case studies.
PUBH 784 Creating Sustainable Environmental Futures (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the interrelationships between individual and societal decisions and the global environment, and analyzes the consequences these interrelationships have for public health and sustainability. The course will review food, environmental quality, climate variability, sea-level rise and public health, homes-workplaces-communities, environmental health and sustainability, in the region, the nation and around the world
Search catalog
