Navy Veteran’s Life Has Revolved Around Water
Navy Veteran’s Life Has Revolved Around Water
November 7, 2024
By Sherry DiBari
It’s no surprise that Andrew Hasty would end up in coastal Virginia – his life has always revolved around water.
Hasty, a mechanical engineering technology major and 12-year Navy veteran, grew up in Ketchikan, Alaska, a small city on the Gulf of Alaska. He spent most of his childhood outdoors – hunting, camping and fishing.
Fishing eventually turned into his profession. He worked for a while as a commercial salmon fisherman in a small operation consisting of just him and the captain.
“I've lived my whole life on the water,” he said.
His love of water, his desire to see the world beyond Ketchikan and a family connection led him to join the Navy at 18.
One of his grandfathers served in the Coast Guard, and another served in Vietnam.
“I felt more connected to them, and it felt like I was carrying on their legacy,” he said. “It was nice that I was able to do that.”
In the Navy, Hasty circled the globe docking in places like South America, Iceland and the Middle East.
“It was incredible,” he said. “I went to a lot of cool places.”
He transitioned out of the service in 2021 as a first-class quartermaster.
When Hasty began searching for engineering programs that offered robotics and additive manufacturing – two of his interests – he found the perfect fit in the engineering technology program at Old Dominion University.
He decided to major in engineering technology with a concentration in mechatronics and to pursue a minor in engineering management.
One professor that has influenced Hasty is Charles Lowe, a lecturer in the Department of Engineering Technology.
“Professor Lowe is hilarious,” Hasty said. “Just his humor and the stories he tells and the way he explains the material are just awesome.”
Lowe holds Hasty in high regard as well.
“I had him as a student in multiple classes where he consistently displayed a strong work ethic and a commitment to excellence,” Lowe said. “As a veteran, he brought a unique perspective to the classroom, demonstrating exceptional engagement and dedication that enriched discussions and inspired his peers.”
Hasty attributes his success to his time in the military and his status as an older student.
“I have more responsibilities than most college students,” Hasty said. “But I have the ability to manage them a lot better.”
Hasty plans to graduate next fall and then find a job in the robotics or 3D-printing field.
Outside of school, he stays busy with home projects. He recently installed a fire pit and replaced all the drywall in one of his bathrooms.
“I'm a homeowner, so I always have home projects to do,” he said. “It never ends.”
Next semester he will be extra busy – he and his wife are expecting their third child.
Hasty will be back on the water soon – this time in a different role.
“My wife is already planning a Disney cruise vacation,” he said.
