The classes marked with an asterisk are required classes for licensure.
Other doctoral-level classes may be taken in consultation with your advisor.
Students must successfully complete the School Leaders Licensure Assessment (SLLA).
Additional Requirements
Continuance
Students must meet all department, college, and university policy requirements for continuation in their academic program. See department policy below.
Continuance Policy and Procedures for the Educational Leadership Program
The following policy has been established for continuance in Educational Leadership Program.
At the end of each semester – fall, spring, and summer – the graduate program directors (GPD) will review student records.  As per university policy, students who do not maintain an overall GPA of at least 3.0 in their ELS program will be placed on probation.  Students placed on probation have one semester to bring their overall GPA back to a minimum of 3.0.  A student may be placed on probation only one time in their EFL program and will not be eligible for a second probationary period.  Should a student’s GPA fall below 3.0 twice, he/she will be dismissed from the program.
Students who receive a grade of F in any ELS required or elective program course or who receive a final grade of lower than B- in more than one class in their program will be dismissed from their program by the Graduate Program Director and Department Chair.  A failing grade in dissertation credits for one semester places the student in warning status and does not automatically dismiss the student from the program.  However, two failing grades in dissertation credits will result in dismissal from the program.  Students may follow the Grade Appeal Procedure in the ODU Graduate Catalog.  In the event a grade is appealed such that the student comes into compliance with the EFL Continuance Policy, he/she will be reinstated.  In accord with University policy, ODU email is considered official communication.
Exit
the School Leaders Licensure Assessment (SLLA);
the required course of study;
three self assessments, one at the start of the program, one after the first internship, and one upon completion of all coursework;
Two internships of 320 hours and 5 placements per VDOE administrative licensure regulations; and,
have a minimum 3.00 grade point average in order to graduate.
Search catalog
