University Facts & Figures
About Old Dominion University
At Old Dominion University, we are forward-focused on first generation students, fourth-generation veterans, the next generation of risk-taking entrepreneurs and researchers, future educators and artists who color our world. As Monarchs, we roll up our sleeves and dig in to make a difference in the lives of others.
Nationally recognized for excellence in academics, social mobility and military friendliness, ODU is located in Norfolk, Virginia. We are Virginia’s forward-focused public doctoral research university, with nearly 24,000 students, a top R1 research designation, rigorous academics, and an energetic, diverse campus community.
About ODU
Top 10% nationally in Social Mobility
- CollegeNET
- U.S. News and World Report
Military-Friendly School: Gold Ranking
Most Diverse Medical School in Virginia
- U.S. News and World Report (tied)
Mission
Old Dominion University (ODU) is a preeminent public research university located in Coastal Virginia. Our world-class faculty fosters dynamic on-campus and global online learning for undergraduate and graduate students that enriches their lives, promotes insightful and perceptive leadership, and motivates the pursuit of excellence in dedicated fields and professions. We collaborate with strategic partners to address challenges and propose solutions that impact the economy, environment, health and wellness, and social justice. In pursuit of equity and inclusion, ODU provides opportunities for educational, artistic, and professional growth to our diverse Monarch community.
23,743
Undergraduate
Our Students
ODU welcomes students from hometowns across Virginia and around the world.  Nearly 30% of our students are military-affiliated and more than half of our students come from underrepresented groups. Our international student Monarchs come from 91 different countries.
749 International Students
175,303 Alumni Worldwide (includes Legacy EVMS alumni)
73 Home Countries
50 Home States plus Guam, Puerto Rico and US Virgin Islands
89% of Graduates Employed or in Graduate School 6 months after graduation
Diversity at ODU
ODU has a time-honored tradition of providing a diverse and welcoming community where we learn from different backgrounds, cultures, and experiences. As a close campus and caring community, we demonstrate understanding and respect for each other. This has defined ODU for many decades, and it will continue as we move forward.
ODU is home to the most diverse medical school in Virginia (tied, U.S. News & World Report 2024) and has a legacy of changing the trajectory of student lives. ODU is in the top 10% of schools in the nation for social mobility – we take our students farther (College Net 2024). The Center for Social Mobility at ODU is an innovation center providing information and best practices to educators, policymakers, graduate students, researchers, and parents to support the social mobility of all students. The Center is at the forefront of higher education social mobility issues and focuses on approaches institutions can take to support students and address systems that may promote social mobility.
52% of students come from unrepresented ethnic groups
37% of first-time minority students graduate from ODU within 6 years
1,071 first-time, full-time African American students, Fall 2023
30% minority full-time instructional faculty at ODU
Degree Programs
ODU offers more than 228 programs on campus and 130 online programs and certificates.
57 Bachelor’s Programs
130 programs and certificates offered online through ODUGlobal
Colleges and Schools
8th largest employer in Virginia
Named America’s Best In-State Employers 2024 by Forbes and Statista
2024 Healthiest Employers in Virginia – ODU is the only higher education institution ranked in the state.
15:1 Student-to-Faculty Ratio
2,064 Part-time Staff & Adjunct Faculty
654 Administrative & Professional Faculty
Research & Economic Development
As a Carnegie R1 institution, ODU innovates locally to transform globally. Fostering the creation of intellectual capital that can address today’s issues, improve the quality of life and provide an engine for economic growth by facilitating research and development.  ODU has nationally known research strengths in coastal resilience, modeling and simulation, bioelectrics, cybersecurity, and port logistics and maritime engineering.
The University’s business and research initiatives contribute $3.8 billion annually to Virginia's economy. The Office of Enterprise Research and Innovation provides a streamlined entry point to the intellectual capital, innovative technologies and world-class infrastructure of the university.
388 Total Number of New Awards
$76.2M Total Dollar Value of New Awards
920 Total Number of Active Awards
$120M Total Research & Development Expenditures
Centers
Virginia Modeling, Analysis and Simulation Center (VMASC)
Center for Secure and Intelligent Critical Systems (CSICS)
Center for Mission Engineering (CME)
Virginia Digital Maritime Center (VDMC)
Virginia Institute for Spaceflight and Autonomy (VISA)
Institute for Coastal Adaptation and Resilience (ICAR)
Modeling and Simulation for Health and STEM (MSHS)
Storymodelers Research Laboratory
Robotics and Virtual Environment (R&VE)
Simulation and Analytics Lan (SEAL)
National Centers for System of Systems Engineering
Social Science Research Center
Virginia Applied Technology and Professional Development Center
Virginia Coastal Energy Research Consortium (VCERC)
Institute for Innovation and Entrepreneurship
Biorepository
Center for Integrative Neuroscience and Inflammatory Diseases
Leroy T. Canoles Jr. Cancer Research Center
Center for Women and Infant Health Equity and Advocacy
EVMS-Sentara Collaborative Integrated Neurodegenerative Disorders Center
CONRAD
National Center for Collaboration in Medical Modeling and Simulation
Glennan Center for Geriatrics and Gerontology
Community Health and Research Division of Pediatrics
Research and Infrastructure Service Enterprise (RISE)
Strelitz Diabetes Center
George L. Wright Jr. Center for Biomedical Proteomics
Athletics
ODU is a proud member of the Sun Belt in: Football, Men's & Women's Soccer, Men's & Women's Basketball, Men's & Women's Golf, Men's & Women's Tennis, Men's & Women's Swimming and Diving, Baseball, Women's Volleyball.
ODU Field Hockey is a member of Big East Conference
ODU Women's Rowing is a member of the American Athletics Conference
ODU Women's Lacrosse is a member of the American Athletic Conference
ODU has 18 varsity sports, 16 are a part of NCAA Division I
Learn more at odusports.com
Campuses
The main campus of Old Dominion University sits on 337 acres adjacent to Norfolk's historic waterfront. ODU's Eastern Virginia Medical School campus is located in downtown Norfolk. ODU facilities include:
148 Main Campus Buildings
8 Medical School Campus Buildings
Additional regional higher education centers include:
