FIN 195 Topics (3 Credit Hours)
Study of selected topics.
FIN 210S Personal Financial Literacy (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides basic financial information an informed individual should understand in order to successfully reach their personal goals.  Topics include budgeting, goal setting, the process of accumulating and protecting wealth, use of credit, the car and housing decisions, and risk management.   Emphasis is on understanding how our behaviors affect successfully reaching these goals and how to improve decision making.
Prerequisites: MATH 101M or higher
FIN 220 Bloomberg Data System/Wall Street 101 (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide students with basic knowledge of Wall Street while learning how to utilize Bloomberg Terminals to gain practical knowledge and experience. The Bloomberg Lab and Trading Room provides students with access to the comprehensive data system used by major national and international companies, financial organizations, and government agencies.  Students are required to complete Bloomberg Market Concepts program and earn a Bloomberg Certification, of value to many employers. Students will utilize an interactive trading game to experience the role of Wall Street traders and market makers.
FIN 323 Introductory Financial Management (3 Credit Hours)
Financial analysis, planning, and control in the business enterprise. An introduction to budgeting, problems in long- and short-term financing, sources of capital and financial markets.
Prerequisites: ACCT 201 or ACCT 226 , ACCT 202 or ACCT 227 , and ECON 202S or ECON 227S ; a declared major in the University or an intended major in the Strome College of Business or permission of the Dean's Office of the Strome College; AND Junior Standing
FIN 331 Legal Environment of Business (3 Credit Hours)
Introduction to the legal environment of business, providing the student with an understanding of the nature of public law and the regulation of business and of the basic principles that control business practices.
Prerequisites: A declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
FIN 333 The Legal Environment of Electronic Commerce (3 Credit Hours)
This course will focus on the identification and management of legal issues and problems that confront businesses taking part in the rapidly growing internet economy.  Issues will include the establishment and protection of an online identity, electronic contracting, libel, product and firm disparagement, and unfair consumer practices.
Prerequisites: FIN 331 , and  a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
FIN 367 Cooperative Education (1-6 Credit Hours)
Available for pass/fail grading only.  May be repeated for credit up to a maximum of 6 credits.
Prerequisites: approval by the department and Career Development Services in accordance with the policy for granting credit for Cooperative Education programs and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
FIN 368 Finance Internship (1-3 Credit Hours)
Student participation in a professional work experience.  Approval for enrollment and allowable credits is determined by the Finance department chair and the Career Development Services in the semester prior to enrollment. A transfer student must have completed one semester at Old Dominion University.
Prerequisites: a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
FIN 387 Honors: Introductory Financial Management (3 Credit Hours)
A special honors section of FIN 323 .  Open only to students in the Honors Program in Business Administration.
Prerequisites: ACCT 201 or ACCT 226 , ACCT 202 or ACCT 227 , and ECON 202S and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
FIN 388 Honors: Legal Environment of Business (3 Credit Hours)
A special honors section of FIN 331 .  Open only to students in the Honors Program in Business Administration.
Prerequisites: a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
FIN 414 Estate Planning (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide students with a background in the field of estate planing. Topics will include wills and trusts, the probate system, estate and gift taxation, and fiduciary income taxation.
Prerequisites: ACCT 421 (or permission of instructor) and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
FIN 415 Capstone in Financial Plan Development (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide students majoring in personal financial planning with the ability to integrate technical material from previous coursework and prepare a comprehensive financial plan.  Emphasis will be on integrating knowledge, preparing a financial plan, and effectively communicating with a client.  Case studies will be emphasized.
Corequisites: FIN 414
FIN 431 Investments (3 Credit Hours)
This course develops the financial tools and knowledge needed to select among alternative financial assets.  The emphasis is on the individual investor.  Real world experience includes stock analysis, portfolio simulations and interactions with professionals in the securities industry.
Prerequisites: FIN 323 with a grade of C or better and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
FIN 432 Intermediate Financial Management (3 Credit Hours)
Theoretical framework relevant to decision making in financial management; capital budgeting, capital structure, cost of capital, and working capital management.
Prerequisites: FIN 323 with a grade of C or better and junior standing
FIN 433 Introduction to Futures and Options (3 Credit Hours)
An introduction to the understanding of futures and options.  Basic features and trading mechanisms; valuation of financial derivatives; methods of managing financial risk; arbitrage techniques; and speculation strategies.
Prerequisites: FIN 323 with a grade of C or better and FIN 431 and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
FIN 434 Management of Financial Institutions (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of the objectives, functions, policies, organizational practices, and government regulations of financial institutions.
Prerequisites: FIN 323 with a grade of C or better and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
FIN 435 International Financial Management (3 Credit Hours)
Financial decision making involving flow and funds across national boundaries.
Prerequisites: FIN 323 with a grade of C or better and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
FIN 439 Financial Decision Making (3 Credit Hours)
Application of financial theory and techniques to the analysis and solution of actual financial problems.  Case analysis.
Prerequisites: FIN 432 with a grade of C or better and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
FIN 441 Student Managed Investment Fund (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide students with experience managing an investment fund.  The students will apply the theoretical knowledge of finance to manage a real portfolio.
FIN 497 Selected Topics in Finance (3 Credit Hours)
For advanced students in financial management.
Prerequisites: permission of the department chair
Real Estate (REST)
REST 319 Principles of Real Estate (3 Credit Hours)
The fundamentals of real estate productivity and value are developed. Legal elements of real estate transactions, physical aspects of real estate location and production, and economic factors pertinent to real estate.
Prerequisites: A declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
REST 368 Real Estate Internship (1-3 Credit Hours)
A faculty supervised, professionally oriented project. Approval for enrollment and allowable credits is determined by the department chair. A transfer student must have completed one semester at Old Dominion University.
Prerequisites: A declared major in the Strome College of Business or permission of the Dean's Office
REST 450 Real Estate Finance (3 Credit Hours)
This course explores the different financing and ownership arrangements used in real estate transactions.
Prerequisites: REST 319 or permission of the instructor
REST 451 Real Estate Appraisal (3 Credit Hours)
Economic theories of value applied to real estate as a guide to business decisions.
Prerequisites: REST 319 or permission of the instructor
REST 454 Real Estate Investment Analysis (3 Credit Hours)
Examination of developments in real estate valuation and investment with use of computer terminal models.
Prerequisites: REST 319 or permission of the instructor
REST 495 Selected Topics in Real Estate (3 Credit Hours)
For advanced students in real estate.
Prerequisites: REST 319 or permission of the instructor
Risk Management and Insurance (RMI)
RMI 317 Principles of Risk Management and Insurance (3 Credit Hours)
Recommended elective for non-business as well as business majors. The primary focus of this introductory course is on evaluating life, health, retirement, property, liability and personnel exposures to loss and analyzing the methods for managing these risks. Risk management and insurance techniques for dealing with potential losses to individuals and organizations will be emphasized. Classwork and a group project will also cover emerging risks, such as cyber risk, and technologies disrupting the industry. Students receiving a B or better in this course can have it count as the CPCU 500 course of the Chartered Property-Casualty Underwriter (CPCU) professional designation.
Prerequisites: A declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office of the Strome College of Business
RMI 367 Cooperative Education (1-6 Credit Hours)
Available for pass/fail grading only. May be repeated for credit up to a maximum of 6 credits. Approval for enrollment and allowable credits are determined by the risk management and insurance advisor and Career Development Services in accordance with the policy for granting credit for Cooperative Education programs.
Prerequisites: A declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
RMI 368 Insurance Internship (1-3 Credit Hours)
A faculty supervised, professionally oriented project. Approval for enrollment and allowable credits is determined by the Risk Management advisor.  A transfer student must have completed one semester at Old Dominion University.
Prerequisites: A declared major in risk management and approval of the Risk Management advisor
RMI 410 Life and Health Insurance (3 Credit Hours)
This course uses a broad-based financial planning approach in considering the nature and importance of individual life and health risks and uses of individual life and health insurance in treating these risks. The implications of various legal, tax, and accounting considerations on businesses and individuals are discussed. The course also provides an overview of the operational aspects of life insurers, including organization, underwriting, actuarial, reinsurance, marketing, investment, taxation, and accounting functions. Cases are employed.
Prerequisites: RMI 317 or permission of the instructor
RMI 411 Employee Benefit Planning (3 Credit Hours)
This course considers the ability of group insurance and other private pooling mechanisms to alleviate the financial problems arising from death, disability, medical treatment and retirement. Primary emphasis on design, tax and administrative characteristics as they relate to employer-sponsored benefit programs. Cases are employed.
Prerequisites: RMI 317 or permission of the instructor
RMI 412 Property & Liability Insurance Company Operations (3 Credit Hours)
The course provides a broad overview of the operational activities and current problems of property and liability insurance companies, including organization, regulation, pricing, underwriting, claims, reinsurance, marketing, investment, and accounting functions. Classwork and a group project will also cover emerging risks, such as cyber risk, and technologies disrupting the industry. Students receiving a B or better in this course can have it count as the CPCU 520 course of the Chartered Property-Casualty Underwriter (CPCU) professional designation.
Prerequisites: RMI 317 or permission of the instructor
RMI 413 Risk Analysis and Control (3 Credit Hours)
Recommended elective for non-business as well as business majors. This course focuses on the risk analysis and control phases of the risk management process in business and governmental organizations. Particular attention is paid to the recognition, measurement, and treatment of traditional and emerging risks, risk financing options other than commercial insurance, and decision making under conditions of uncertainty. Classwork and a group project will also cover emerging risks, such as cyber risk, and technologies disrupting the industry.
Prerequisites: RMI 317 or equivalent or permission of the instructor
RMI 443 Enterprise Risk Management (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed as a capstone course for students majoring or minoring in risk management and insurance. The class will be introduced to all aspects of enterprise risk management (ERM), which is the emerging paradigm in risk management. Classwork and a group project will also cover emerging risks, such as cyber risk, and technologies disrupting the industry.
Prerequisites: RMI 317 and either RMI 412 or RMI 413 or permission of instructor
RMI 495 Selected Topics in Risk Management and Insurance (3 Credit Hours)
For advanced students in risk management and insurance.
Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor
Search catalog
