757-683-4305 http://www.odu.edu/efl
Karen Sanzo, Graduate Program Director
The purpose of graduate programs in educational leadership is to prepare individuals to assume leadership responsibilities in education, training, and other human service organizations. Educational leadership offers the MSEd and the EdS degrees for candidates seeking PK-12 administration and supervision licensure. The programs prepare leaders who are visionary, who have depth of knowledge, and who can be effective and responsive organizational leaders. The programs develop graduates who can apply research-based knowledge, skills, and dispositions that translate into effective practice through innovative program instruction and authentic field-based experiences. The concentration area in educational administration and supervision is approved by the state of Virginia and is fully accredited by the Council for the Accreditation of Educator Preparation. Students complete 30 semester hours of coursework to lead to licensure as an administrator. The program is offered online only.
Admission
To gain admission, applicants must:
meet all University admissions requirements;
have an undergraduate grade point average of 2.80 overall and 3.00 in the major;
provide two letters of recommendation, including one from a school administrator; and,
write a one page essay that explains the applicant's professional experiences and personal goals, specific ways the applicant hopes to improve public education as an educational leader, and how this degree will help the applicant address her/his professional goals.
write a one page, single-spaced statement about a contemporary and critical issue facing educational leaders. Address the following: - What is the contemporary issue and why is it critical? - Why is this issue relevant to school and/or division leaders? - What role should school and/or division leaders play in addressing this issue and how?
In addition, all students who wish to enter the administration and supervision program with Commonwealth of Virginia accreditation must satisfactorily complete an administrative skills portfolio assessment process. ELS 700 must be the first course in which students enroll. The M.S.Ed. in Educational Leadership with a concentration in Administration & Supervision is offered online only.
Curriculum Requirements
Program Requirements
For the Master of Science in Education with a concentration in administration and supervision, a student must have completed an approved 30-hour minimum graduate program including two internships and a culminating written comprehensive examination. Approved internship experiences are required by the Commonwealth of Virginia.
Administration and Supervision (K-12 Licensure) Concentration
Requirements for this concentration area are as follows.
Course List
