PAS - Public Affairs and Service
PAS - Public Affairs and Service
Graduate Courses
PAS 300 Foundations of Public Service (3 Credit Hours)
An introduction to the study of public service.  Emphasis is placed on the history and framework of public service and the study and practice of public administration.
Prerequisites: A declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office of the College of Business
PAS 301 Ethics, Governance and Accountability in Public Service (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides an overview of ethics, governance and accountability in public service, with particular emphasis on the linkages between these three concepts.  The focus is on the ethical context and implications of public management, governance structures, and public sector accountability, particularly in relation to critical social, political, and economic issues.
Prerequisites: A declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office of the College of Business
PAS 368 Internship in Public Service (1-3 Credit Hours)
Student participates in a relevant public service-related work experience.  Approval for enrollment and allowable credits is determined by the PAS CAP advisor and the Career Development Services in the semester prior to enrollment.
PAS 395 Selected Topics in Public Administration (3 Credit Hours)
Designed for the study of selected topics in public administration.
Prerequisites: A declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office of the College of Business
PAS 408 Public Service Films (3 Credit Hours)
From the invention of the first simple 'moving pictures' more than 130 years ago to the latest multi-million dollar, high-tech blockbuster, films have served as a vehicle for both political messages and societal critiques.  As a unifying theme, we will focus our analysis on the films' implications for the study and practice of public service.
Prerequisites: Junior standing and declared major in the University or permission of College of Business Dean's Office
PAS 409 Leadership and Cultural Competence (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on the study of contemporary leadership theory and practice, with particular emphasis on public and non-profit sectors.  The critical themes of ethics and cultural competence are woven throughout the course.
Prerequisites: Junior standing and declared major in the University or permission of College of Business Dean's Office
PAS 410 Public and Non-profit Organization (3 Credit Hours)
An introduction to the study and practice of public and non-profit agencies.  The course is designed to explore fundamental issues of organizational structure, management, and operations of public and non-profit organizations in modern American society.
Prerequisites: PAS 300 or PAS 301 or permission of the instructor, and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office of the College of Business
PAS 411 Multi-Sector Partnerships for Public Service (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the interplay between the public, private, and non-profit sectors.  Particular emphasis is placed on the structure and operation of intersectoral partnerships to achieve public goals.
Prerequisites: PAS 300 or PAS 301 or permission of the instructor, and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office of the College of Business
PAS 412 Public Service Practice (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide an overview of the essential elements of learning and serving. The course will focus on how to provide meaningful service to a community agency or organization while simultaneously gaining new skills, knowledge, and understanding as an integrated aspect of the student's academic program.
Prerequisites: PAS 300
PAS 413 Public Service Entrepreneurship (3 Credit Hours)
Public service entrepreneurship supports the development of socially aware and responsive students through service and learning. Students will participate in service projects with community partners to recognize and reflect on the social needs of their community. This course will integrate classroom learning with community participation to provide practical experience for students to recognize the rewards of serving.
PAS 495 Topics in Public Affairs and Service (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed for the study of selected topics in public affairs and service.
Prerequisites: A declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office of the College of Business
PAS 497 Independent Study in Public Service (3 Credit Hours)
Provides students the opportunity to undertake independent study of selected topics/issues in public service under the guidance of a faculty member.  Student and faculty member must complete and agree on a learning contract before study begins. Pass/Fail grading only.
No Graduate courses found.
