HPE - Health and Physical Education
HPE - Health and Physical Education
Graduate Courses
HPE 200 Foundations of Education, Physical Education and Health (3 Credit Hours)
Teacher candidates gain insight into the techniques, methodology, and philosophy of field-based health and physical education teachers. Teacher candidates will be expected to observe and participate in the teaching of simple lessons. This course requires a completed ODU clearance/background check prior to entering a school or community agency. Visit: odu.edu/oce for clearance procedures. If students do not have the clearance by the first week of classes, they will be dropped. This course requires a 20 hour placement in an elementary setting.
HPE 218 Aquatics and Outdoor Education (2 Credit Hours)
Teacher candidates gain insight into the techniques, methodology, and philosophy of field-based health and physical education teachers. Teacher candidates will be expected to observe and participate in the teaching of simple lessons.
Prerequisites: open to PE - Teacher Prep majors only
HPE 220 Teaching of Team Sports (3 Credit Hours)
This course covers skills and strategies of team sports, where opposing teams interact directly and simultaneously to achieve an objective. The team sports will be broken down into the components of territory, net/wall, and fielding/run scoring games. The student teacher will become familiar with teaching and organizational techniques appropriate for each activity. Emphasis is placed on a tactical approach and knowledge of sport specific skills, game strategy, rules, teaching facilitation, organization, and demonstration of different parts of a lesson.
Prerequisites: open to PE-Teacher Preparation majors only
HPE 222 Teaching Individual Sports and Dance (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed as both a laboratory and methods class in which the student learns skills and strategies of pickleball, bowling, badminton, golf, tennis, gymnastics, and dance. It is designed to develop knowledge, understanding, and attitudes of fundamental movements. The student teacher will become familiar with teaching and organizational techniques appropriate for each activity. Emphasis is placed on a tactical approach and knowledge of specific skills, game strategy, rules, teaching facilitation, organization, and demonstration of different parts of a lesson.
Prerequisites: open to PE - Teacher Prep majors only
HPE 295 Topics in Physical Education (1-3 Credit Hours)
This course provides an opportunity for in-depth study of selected topics in physical education.
Prerequisites: sophomore standing and approval of program advisor
HPE 300 Teaching Elementary Physical Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to acquaint the teacher candidate with elementary age children, their characteristics, interests, needs, and learning styles. Observation, analysis, and prescription of motor skills, curriculum design using skill themes and movement concepts are aimed at providing the teacher candidate with an increased understanding of how these actions directly relate to the process of effective teaching. Includes a 15 hour field experience.
Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C and HPE 200
HPE 301W Methods and Materials in Teaching Physical Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to acquaint the teacher candidate with the current theories, techniques, and practices utilized in teaching physical education at the secondary level. Discussions will focus on the various age group characteristics, interests, needs and learning styles as related to a school setting. Observation, analysis, and prescription of motor skills, movement concepts, instructional techniques, and curriculum models are aimed at providing the professional educator with an increased understanding of how these factors directly relate to a process of effective teaching.  This writing intensive course includes a 15 hour field experience.
Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C and HPE 200
HPE 308 Driver Education Foundations of Traffic Safety (3 Credit Hours)
The intent of the course is to develop a thorough understanding of the highway transportation systems, the complexity of the driving task, and factors contributing to performance of highway users (e.g. attitudes and skills) necessary to develop competent drivers.  The course will provide prospective teachers with the essential knowledge and skills to effectively deliver course content as an endorsed driver education trainer.
Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in ENGL 110C or instructor permission
Pre- or corequisite: HPE 309
HPE 309 Principles and Methodologies of Classroom and In-Car Instruction (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides teacher candidates with an overview of teaching methods and effective practices for driver education instruction with a focus on teaching skills. An emphasis is placed on program organization, administration, classroom instruction, single car instruction, multiple-car range instruction, simulation and evaluation. A minimum of 20 hours behind-the-wheel supervised teaching experiences.
Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in ENGL 110C or instructor permission
Pre- or corequisite: HPE 308
HPE 317 Human Growth & Motor Development (3 Credit Hours)
This course is an examination of the physical growth and motor development of the human being over the life span. Emphasis is on the assessment of physical and cognitive development, particularly in the K-12 ages. Theory and technique for research are discussed and the use of research findings is incorporated into the assessment materials. Attention is directed toward acquisition of basic skills, perceptual-motor development, and age-related changes.
Prerequisites: HPE 200
HPE 318 Motor Learning (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide the student with experiences in the practical application of theory related to motor learning. Feedback, transfer learning, practice, and motor control principles and concepts are addressed.
Prerequisites: HPE 200
HPE 324 Teaching Injury Care for Sports (3 Credit Hours)
This course presents the knowledge, skills, and teaching techniques essential for proper care in emergency and sport injury situations. Aspects of emergency first aid, sport specific injury recognition and care, and CPR will be covered. Upon satisfactory completion of the course and payment of certification fees, students will receive a two-year certification in first aid and CPR. Students will have the option of taking the sports first aid certification test from ASEP for coaching.
Prerequisites: HPE 200
HPE 327 Teaching of Health and Physical Education, Pre-K-8 (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to prepare classroom teachers in PreK-8 licensure programs for the teaching of health and physical education.  Appropriate content, instructional strategies, effective classroom management, and safety issues and requirements will be presented.
Prerequisites: junior standing
HPE 368 Coaching Internship (6 Credit Hours)
Final field placement required for all students with an emphasis in a coaching minor. Students will be placed in an athletic coaching environment to gain experience in personal communication, technique instruction, practice organization and administrative duties required of the specific sport of their emphasis. Placement of internship subject to instructor approval. Minimum of 200 clock hours (hours to be arranged).
Prerequisites: Senior standing and HPE 409 , HPE 415 , and HPE 456
HPE 400 Management Skills for Teaching Health and Physical Education (3 Credit Hours)
Foundations in psychological, sociological, and academic needs of students, with specific focus on management skills in open classroom and sport settings. Specialized safety concerns and environmental considerations are also addressed. Lesson planning, goal setting, and movement formations unique to HPE activities are included.
Prerequisites: HPE 200
HPE 402/502 Methods and Materials in Health Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course will enable teacher candidates to gain insight into the techniques, methodology, and philosophy of field-based health and physical education. Teacher candidates will be expected to observe and participate in the teaching of simple lessons.
Prerequisites: HPE 200
HPE 404/504 Adapted Physical Education (4 Credit Hours)
Students will become acquainted with the practices and researching of different disabilities, the learning modes of the exceptional child, and IDEA (the law that advocates free and appropriate education). The course will also examine how to work within the ecosystem surrounding a child with disabilities. A vital component of the course will be the practical application of theory.
Prerequisites: HPE 200
HPE 406/506 Tests and Measurement in Physical Education and Health (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to acquaint the student with tests and measurement in the fields of health and physical education, test construction, scoring, and methods of using results.
Prerequisites: junior standing
HPE 409/509 Physiology of Exercise (3 Credit Hours)
An investigation into the physiological adjustments of the human organism to exercise, including systematic and biochemical molecular changes. Major areas of concern include neuromuscular, metabolic, and cardiorespiratory changes during exercise and the influence of such variables as nutrition, drugs, environment, age, sex, training and body weight.
Prerequisites: BIOL 240 or BIOL 250
HPE 415 Principles of Coaching Management (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide students with a basic knowledge of the coaching profession. Special emphasis will be placed on establishing a sound coaching philosophy, selecting a coaching style, desirable qualities of a coach, ethics and the coach, roles of the head coach, planning and organizing for games and practices, coaching pedagogy, off-season planning, final preparations for the season, and issues and problems related to coaching and recruiting athletes.
Prerequisites: Junior standing
HPE 430/530 Nutrition and Fitness Education (3 Credit Hours)
The study of techniques for the teaching of nutrition and health-related fitness. Content to be covered includes nutrition and various aspects of fitness training appropriate for the teaching of PreK-12 physical education and health.
Prerequisites: HPE 200 and HPE 402
HPE 456 Sports Psychology (3 Credit Hours)
Study of the psychological bases of coaching strategies and methodologies. Emphasis is placed on applying knowledge in field settings.
Prerequisites: Junior standing
HPE 469/569 Practicum Experience and Instructional Planning in Health and Physical Education (3 Credit Hours)
Instructional planning coupled with a clinical experience that allows the teaching candidate to teach and observe professionals in a field-based setting. Portfolio development, reflective assessment of teaching, and student assessment techniques will be emphasized. This course requires a completed ODU clearance/background check prior to entering a school or community agency. Visit: https://www.odu.edu/oce for clearance procedures. If students do not have the clearance by the first week of classes, they will be dropped.
Prerequisites: HPE 200 and admission into teacher education program
HPE 480 Teacher Candidate Seminar (1 Credit Hour)
Study and group discussion of problems growing out of the student teaching (teacher candidate internship) experience.
Prerequisites: acceptance into teacher education and approval of the program advisor
HPE 485 Teacher Candidate Internship (12 Credit Hours)
A culminating experience that provides a field-based application of effective techniques in behavior, management, instructional strategies, and the development of professional attributes in K-12 school setting.  This course requires a completed ODU clearance/background check prior to entering a school or community agency. Visit: https://www.odu.edu/oce for clearance procedures. If students do not have the clearance by the first week of classes, they will be dropped.
Prerequisites: acceptance into teacher education, completion of approved program,  passing scores on the appropriate PRAXIS II content examination, and an approved application for Teacher Candidate Internship
HPE 497 Topics in Health and Physical Education (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of specialized topics in health and physical education.
Prerequisites: permission of the instructor
HPE 498 Topics in Health and Physical Education (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of specialized topics in health and physical education.
Prerequisites: permission of the instructor
HPE 502 Methods and Materials in Health Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course will enable teacher candidates to gain insight into the techniques, methodology, and philosophy of field-based health and physical education. Teacher candidates will be expected to observe and participate in the teaching of simple lessons.
HPE 504 Adapted Physical Education (3 Credit Hours)
Students will become acquainted with the practices and researching of different disabilities, the learning modes of the exceptional child, and IDEA (the law that advocates free and appropriate education). The course will also examine how to work within the ecosystem surrounding a child with disabilities. A vital component of the course will be the practical application of theory.
HPE 506 Tests and Measurement in Physical Education and Health (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to acquaint the student with tests and measurement in the fields of health and physical education, test construction, scoring, and methods of using results.
HPE 509 Exercise Physiology (3 Credit Hours)
An investigation into the physiological adjustments of the human organism to exercise, including systematic and biochemical molecular changes. Major areas of concern include neuromuscular, metabolic, and cardiorespiratory changes during exercise and the influence of such variables as nutrition, drugs, environment, age, sex, training and body weight.
Prerequisites: BIOL 240 or BIOL 250
HPE 530 Nutrition and Fitness Education (3 Credit Hours)
The study of techniques for the teaching of nutrition and health-related fitness. Content to be covered includes nutrition and various aspects of fitness training appropriate for the teaching of PreK-12 physical education and health.
HPE 569 Practicum Experience and Instructional Planning in Health and Physical Education (3 Credit Hours)
A clinical experience that allows the teaching candidate to teach and observe professionals in a field-based setting. Portfolio development, reflective assessment of teaching, and student assessment techniques will be emphasized. This course requires a completed ODU clearance/background check prior to entering a school or community agency. Visit: www.odu.edu/TES for clearance procedures. If students do not have the clearance by the first week of classes, they will be dropped.
Prerequisites: HPE 200 and admission into teacher education program
HPE 587 Teacher Candidate Seminar (1 Credit Hour)
Study and group discussion of problems growing out of the student teaching (teacher candidate internship) experience. Students must pass Praxis II to complete this course.
Prerequisites: acceptance into teacher education and approval of the program advisor
HPE 601 Adapted Physical Education Design and Supervision (3 Credit Hours)
This course is divided into three sections. The first section deals with learning how to administer and interpret several evaluation tools. The second section concentrates on developing computer, videotaping, and other technology skills for adapted PE. The third section focuses on overall supervision of adapted PE programs in various school and institutional environments.
HPE 607 Movement Analysis of Individual and Team Sports (3 Credit Hours)
This laboratory and methods class focuses on the skills and strategies of teaching individual sports (e.g., bowling, badminton, golf, and tennis) and team sports (e.g., football, basketball, volleyball, and softball), using a tactical approach.
HPE 609 Principles of Movement Analysis in Dance and Rhythmic Activities for Physical Education (3 Credit Hours)
The course is designed to help teachers and coaches improve their skills in analyzing movement skills in dance and rhythmic activities. Such skill analysis is necessary to effectively diagnose movement deficiencies, prescribe techniques for improving performance, and modifying activities for the adaptive program.
HPE 636 Research Problems in Health & Physical Education (3 Credit Hours)
Practice in the use of statistical and analytical techniques in solving problems in health and physical education; supervised student research.
HPE 668 Internship in Health & Physical Education (1-6 Credit Hours)
Designed to provide detailed practical experience (400 clock hours) in a health and physical education field setting.
Prerequisites: completion of 75% of graduate work
HPE 680 Problems in Health Education (3 Credit Hours)
Problems in teaching health education on the elementary and secondary level; family life education, substance use and abuse, and mental and emotional health.
HPE 695 Topics in Health & Physical Education (1-3 Credit Hours)
Selected topic courses in health and physical education.
HPE 697 Independent Study In Health & Physical Education (1-3 Credit Hours)
Investigations in health, physical education. Problems approved in advance are investigated under the supervision of the faculty advisor.
HPE 698 Thesis (3 Credit Hours)
Thesis.
HPE 699 Thesis (3 Credit Hours)
Thesis.
HPE 704 Advanced Studies in Adapted Physical Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides experiences of teaching adapted physical education content in lecture and gymnasium settings. Students will develop an understanding of a broad spectrum of disability related content that is applicable to physical education, and gain a deep knowledge of specific topics within disability studies. General and disability specific teaching strategies will be discussed.
HPE 718 Applied Learning and Coaching Theory (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines applied theories of learning and coaching in sport and physical education. Emphasis will be placed on understanding the differing coaching/learning theories and strategies, designing effective practice and game plans, and learning the different learning levels and styles through observing, analyzing, and critiquing skills. Current research and practice will be emphasized.
HPE 719 Planning and Administration in PE and Sport Programs (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide in-depth information about the planning and administrative aspects of sport/physical education programs. Content includes, but is not limited to, teaching/training planning, safety and injury prevention, behavioral management, field/facility maintenance, budgetary considerations, public relations, and legal and risk management procedures associated with coaching/teaching PE.
HPE 720 Curriculum Development in Physical Education (3 Credit Hours)
A course designed to acquaint the student with the basic principles and practices in curriculum development. Curriculum development methodologies for both K-12 and college curricula will be addressed.
HPE 721 Motivational Issues in Sports (3 Credit Hours)
Motivational and psychological issues relate with sport performance enhancement, athlete/student wellbeing, and clinical issues with specific populations.
HPE 740 Motor Learning and Development (3 Credit Hours)
This course covers a combination of motor development and motor learning topics. The course information and structure are designed to optimize practitioners’ effectiveness in the classroom and on the field via practical application of motor behavior theories, concepts and principles. Attention is directed toward understanding the acquisition of skills from the fundamental, initial level to the sport-specific, more advanced level, toward optimal age and skill-level practices and developing appropriate motor skill assessments for infants through older adulthood. Past and current research findings are incorporated into each of the course topics.
HPE 745 Assessment/Evaluation and Technology in Sport/PE (3 Credit Hours)
This course covers assessment/evaluation theory and practices in PE/Sport. Multiple evaluation designs and techniques in different domains such as teaching/coaching, learning, and performance will be discussed along with technology applications in PE/Sport.
HPE 804 Advanced Studies in Adapted Physical Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides experiences of teaching adapted physical education content in lecture and gymnasium settings. Students will develop an understanding of a broad spectrum of disability related content that is applicable to physical education, and gain a deep knowledge of specific topics within disability studies. General and disability specific teaching strategies will be discussed.
HPE 805 Advanced Qualitative Research in Adapted Physical Education (3 Credit Hours)
Qualitative research seeks to make sense of, or interpret, the meaning of social phenomena in the natural setting, filtering through the multiple lens of race, social class, ethnicity, language, gender, and ability/disability. The aims of this course are twofold: (1) to highlight the contribution of qualitative inquiry to our understanding of the theory, research, and practice in adapted physical education, and (2) to provide basic skills and understanding necessary for doctoral students in adapted physical education to interpret and conduct qualitative research.
Prerequisites: FOUN 812
HPE 819 Planning and Administration in PE and Sport Programs (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide in-depth information about the planning and administrative aspects of sport/physical education programs. Content includes, but is not limited to, teaching/training planning, safety and injury prevention, behavioral management, field/facility maintenance, budgetary considerations, public relations, and legal and risk management procedures associated with coaching/teaching PE.
HPE 820 Curriculum Development in Physical Education (3 Credit Hours)
A course designed to acquaint the student with the basic principles and practices in curriculum development. Curriculum development methodologies for both K-12 and college curricula will be addressed.
HPE 840 Motor Learning and Development (3 Credit Hours)
This course covers a combination of motor development and motor learning topics. The course information and structure are designed to optimize practitioners' effectiveness in the classroom and on the field via practical application of motor behavior theories, concepts and principles. Attention is directed toward understanding the acquisition of skills from the fundamental, initial level to the sport-specific, more advanced level, toward optimal age and skill-level practices and developing appropriate motor skill assessments for infants through older adulthood. Past and current research findings are incorporated into each of the course topics.
HPE 845 Assessment/Evaluation and Technology in Sport/PE (3 Credit Hours)
This course covers assessment/evaluation theory and practices in PE/Sport. Multiple evaluation designs and techniques in different domains such as teaching/coaching, learning, and performance will be discussed along with technology applications in PE/Sport.
HPE 846 Advanced Quantitative Research in Adapted Physical Activity (3 Credit Hours)
This quantitative research method course delves into two aspects: (1) to understand the quantitative study design and evidence hierarchy as they relate to research and practices in adapted physical activity, and (2) to provide skills and understanding necessary for doctoral students in adapted physical activity to interpret and conduct quantitative research.
