Graduate Courses
OPMT 303 Operations Management (3 Credit Hours)
Examines strategic, tactical and operational issues in the planning and control of manufacturing and service delivery systems.  This course examines such topics as process design, capacity and materials planning and control, inventory management, facility layout, quality and work management.
Prerequisites: BNAL 206 or STAT 130M ; AND a declared major in the University or an intended major in the Strome College of Business or permission of the Dean's Office of the Strome College; AND Junior Standing
OPMT 367 Cooperative Education (1-3 Credit Hours)
Approval for enrollment and allowable credits is determined by the department and Career Development Services in the semester prior to enrollment.  Available for pass/fail grading only.  (qualifies as a CAP experience)
Prerequisites: junior standing and a declared major in the university or permission of the Dean’s Office
OPMT 368 Student Internship (1-3 Credit Hours)
Approval for enrollment and allowable credits is determined by the department and Career Development Services in the semester prior to enrollment.  Available for pass/fail grading only.  (qualifies as a CAP experience)
Prerequisites: junior standing and a declared major in the university or permission of the Dean’s Office
OPMT 369 Practicum (1-3 Credit Hours)
Approval for enrollment and allowable credits are determined by the department CAP adviser and the Career Development Services in the semester prior to enrollment.  Student participation in a professional work experience.  Available for pass/fail grading only.  (qualifies as a CAP experience)
Prerequisites: OPMT 303 and a declared major in the university or permission of the Dean’s Office
OPMT 455 SAP Applications (3 Credit Hours)
This course introduces students to the concept of enterprise resource planning. Students will learn SAP (Systems, Applications and Products in Data Processing) enterprise software to manage business operations and customer relations by analyzing and presenting data stats in an engaging way, and producing meaningful and insightful business solutions.
Prerequisites: OPMT 303 , or IT 201 , or IT 360T , or instructor's permission
OPMT 495 Selected Topics in Operations Management (3 Credit Hours)
Selected advanced topics in operations management.  Taught on an occasional basis.  See the course schedule for the particular topic being taught each semester.
Prerequisites: Senior standing and a declared major in the university or permission of the Dean's Office
OPMT 497 Independent Study in Operations Management (1-3 Credit Hours)
Affords students the opportunity to undertake independent study under the direction of a faculty member.
Prerequisites: permission of the department
OPMT 615 Operations & Supply Chain Management (2 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on the issues related to process, layout, production planning, materials management, quality, and lean manufacturing.  The effects of these issues on productivity, firm performance, and customer satisfaction will be discussed.  Furthermore, supply chain design, integration, and sustainability are discussed and analyzed.
Prerequisites: MBA 600 , MBA 606 , and MBA 638 OR MBA 600 , MBA 601, MBA 602, MBA 603, and MBA 604
OPMT 695 Selected Topics in Operations Management (3 Credit Hours)
Study of selected topics in operations management.
Prerequisites: permission of the department chair and the graduate program director
OPMT 697 Independent Study in Operations Management (3 Credit Hours)
Affords students the opportunity to undertake independent study under the direction of a faculty member.
Prerequisites: OPMT 611
OPMT 795 Topics (3 Credit Hours)
Study of selected topics.
OPMT 895 Topics (3 Credit Hours)
Study of selected topics.
