Graduate Courses
JST 300 Holocaust and Genocide Studies (3 Credit Hours)
After the atrocities of the Holocaust, 'Never again!' has been repeated throughout the world. However, the reality is that genocide did not begin or end with the Holocaust. This course uses the Holocaust as a case study in genocide, tracing the history of anti-Judaism and anti-Semitism in Europe through its reappropriation by Adolf Hitler. Through an interdisciplinary approach to the Holocaust where history, literature, film, and oral narratives are considered, students establish a basis for critiquing and understanding other genocides. The course will culminate with an analysis of contemporary genocide, taking into consideration how the genocides and the Holocaust inform our worldview of hatred and impact societies and cultures.
Prerequisites: Grade of C or better in ENGL 110C
JST 350 Judaism (3 Credit Hours)
This course is a basic introduction to Judaism. We will explore the fundamental tenets of Jewish belief, examine primary expressions of Jewish ritual and practice, discuss the historical development of Judaism, and explore sacred texts, secular Yiddish texts, and contemporary issues confronting Jews and Judaism.
JST 395 Topics in Jewish Studies (3 Credit Hours)
This course addresses various topics in Jewish Studies.
Prerequisites: junior standing or permission of instructor
JST 495/595 Topics in Jewish Studies (3 Credit Hours)
This course addresses various topics in Jewish Studies.
Prerequisites: Junior standing or instructor approval
JST 497 Research Project in Jewish Studies (3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study of a topic to be selected in consultation with the director. Research proposal conference, research meetings and research project are required.
Prerequisites: junior standing, 6 hours of course work in Jewish studies, and approval of the director of Jewish Studies
JST 595 Topics in Jewish Studies (3 Credit Hours)
This course addresses various topics in Jewish Studies.
Prerequisites: graduate standing or permission of instructor
Search catalog
