Monarch Internship & Co-Op
Monarch Internship & Co-Op
Monarch Internship & Co-Op Office (MICO) serves as the central unit for supporting work-based learning initiatives at Old Dominion University. We provide advising and support to students, collaborate with employers, and work with academic departments to expand work-based learning curricula. View our map to locate our office.
ODU Students Can Expect
Internship Opportunities: With the office being conveniently located on campus at 1000 Webb Center, we will be able to offer exciting internship programs and a dedicated office for student and faculty support.
Access to Resources: Whether it is mentorship, industry insights, or access to expertise, our office will be a resourceful destination for undergraduates, graduate students and lifelong learning/certificate seekers looking for professional growth through work-based learning.
Engaging Events: We plan to host a series of ongoing events, workshops, and talks that will provide insights into various internships, co-ops, practicums, and externships. These events will be open to all students and will offer a unique opportunity to learn from industry experts.
Text ODUINTERN to 66866
Join the ODUINTERN community and take advantage of the opportunities at your fingertips.
Access exclusive internship and co-op opportunities tailored to your interests and career goals.
Stay informed about crucial deadlines, workshops, and resources to help you excel.
Network with like-minded peers and mentors who are passionate about your success.
Monarch Internship & Co-Op
Monday - Friday 8:30 a.m. - 5 p.m.
Curricular Practical Training (CPT) & International Students
Are you an international student eager to gain professional experience? The Monarch Internship and Co-Op Office approves Curricular Practical Training (CPT) Requests for internships and other work-based learning opportunities that are not required for academic credit. Whether you're ready to submit your CPT Request or seeking more information, we're here to help.
Please submit your request as soon as possible – it takes our office approximately 10 business days to verify and approve your internship before your request can be submitted to the Visa and Immigration Service Advising. More information is available here .
Additional Information
Learn More
Students In Action
“Participating in a number of internships throughout my college career, I’ve truly seen the merit work-based learning holds on your resume. As someone who is constantly crafting my personal brand, internships are a great way to do that.”
Seth Smith Strome College of Business Student
As part of UNIV068, I crafted my ePortfolio, featuring information about my internship within the Monarch Internship and Co-op Office, and proudly secured the title of Best Internship Portfolio for the Fall 2023 semester.
Mackenzi Dellolio Cyber security Student and Veteran
ePortfolio
Before being accepted into the program, I only had a rough idea of where I wanted to take my career after college. This internship allowed me to discover a deep passion for this field and has enabled me to further identify the path I want to take with my life.
Moira McCain Information Professionals Internship
Over the summer, I participated in an internship at Brooks Crossing Innovation Lab as a cybersecurity intern. Thank you to everyone for the opportunity to speak about my experience with my internship at Brooks Crossing Innovation Lab.
Gregory Wilson Cybersecurity Student & Veteran
Gave my SCEI presentation to a group of about 30 students from Grassfield High School and gave them a tour of our space as well as the campus of Old Dominion University!
Loreto Richard Student Ambassador & Graduate Assistant
Read More
Zero-Credit Internship Program
The program's success stories reflect its effectiveness in providing students with practical, meaningful experiences that enhance their education and career prospects. UNIV 068 and GRAD 668 provide students with the opportunity to gain real-world experiences beyond the traditional academic framework.
UNIV 068 and GRAD 668 provide students with the opportunity to gain real-world experiences beyond the traditional academic framework and the courses are tuition free.
GRAD 668. Graduate Internship. 0 Credits.
