Graduate Courses
TLED 195 Topics in Education (1-3 Credit Hours)
Explores contemporary problems and trends in education. Emphasis is placed upon topics related to curriculum, instructional strategies, and evaluation.
TLED 301 Foundations and Introduction to Assessment of Education (3 Credit Hours)
Introduces the historical, philosophical, and sociological foundations and contemporary issues of American public education.  Includes the use and analysis of assessment data and the construction and interpretation of assessments.  Students are expected independently to register for and take the Praxis Core examination while enrolled in this course.  Students in PreK-6 programs will complete a 15 hour observation/participation experience in a primary setting (preK-3) and a 15 hour observation/participation experience in an upper elementary (4-6) setting; students in 6-12 or 6-8 programs will complete a 30 hour observation/participation experience in an appropriate 6-12 setting.
Prerequisites: sophomore standing
TLED 320 Perspectives on the Young Child and the Family (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the familial lives of young children (Birth through Grade 3) and supports understandings of working with parents and families in early childhood settings. Family systems theory provides the basis for study and guides understandings of contemporary family structures. The stages of the family life cycle are explored; principles of healthy family functioning are emphasized to promote healthy growth for children.
Prerequisites: FOUN 301 and TLED 301
TLED 326 Socio-Cultural Perspectives in Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course will utilize a framework of sociocultural theory situated within culturally sustaining pedagogical practices to explore issues related to race, ethnicity, class, gender, sexuality, religion, and language use. Students will learn to create an educational environment that values diversity and employs research-based strategies. The course also examines and evaluates multicultural and global literature that explores issues of diversity.
Prerequisites: ENGL 110C
TLED 328 Observation and Assessment in Early Childhood (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the observation/assessment techniques used in early childhood classrooms as part of a coordinated approach to implement a reflective, high quality early childhood classroom. The purpose of this course is to introduce and support students’ development of skills related to the observation and interpretation of children’s daily activities and behaviors. This course includes a 20-hour practicum.
Prerequisites: TLED 320
TLED 330 The Arts in Early Childhood and Elementary Education (3 Credit Hours)
An exploration of principles, methods, and materials for teaching the arts to young children. Emphasis is on making, interpreting, and designing meaningful art experiences for young children pre-K-grade 3. Students will be asked to participate in activities associated with making and viewing art, as well as design comprehensive learning experiences that encourage children to make and respond to art through conversation, storytelling, play, dramatics, movement, music, and art making.
Prerequisites: TLED 301
TLED 337 Literature for Young Children (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide students with approaches for introducing young children to literature and reading. The course will examine a variety of children's literature genres and explore relationships between language, theory, politics, ideology and print material. Students will design activities that extend children’s literacy experiences, reading enjoyment, writing capabilities, and incorporate cultural and linguistic diversity in social studies, math, science, and the arts.
Prerequisites: TLED 301
TLED 338 Integrated Methods & Curriculum in Early Childhood Ed: Birth-Pre-K (4 Credit Hours)
This course examines the development of curriculum and instructional practices for children in infant, toddler, and preschool settings. The course will focus on the principles and methods of understanding and working with the young child across the content areas of early mathematics, science, literacy, social studies, and the arts. Course includes a 40 hour practicum placement in an early care classroom.
Prerequisites: TLED 330
TLED 360 Classroom Management and Discipline (2 Credit Hours)
Examines theories, research, and practices involved in classroom management, motivation, and discipline.  Explores techniques for organizing and arranging classroom environments that are most conducive to learning.
Prerequisites: TLED 301 or MUSC 300 with a C- or higher
TLED 395 Topics in Education (1-3 Credit Hours)
Explores contemporary problems and trends in education.  Emphasis is placed upon topics related to curriculum, instructional strategies, and evaluation.
Prerequisites: junior standing
TLED 408 Reading and Writing in Content Areas (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines and promotes literacy development in all content areas, including the development and use of disciplinary comprehension and writing/production skills. Students will explore and consider a repertoire of questioning strategies, and strategies in literal, interpretive, critical, analytical, and evaluative comprehension across the curriculum, grades 6-12.
Prerequisites: a grade of C- or higher in TLED 430W and SPED 313 or a grade of C- or higher in one of the following: SEPS 297 , MUSC 300 , TLED 301 , STEM 351 , MUSC 335T , ARTS 279 , HPE 200 , HPE 317 , SPED 400 , and TLED 474
TLED 426 Introduction to Literacy, Linguistics and Practice in the Classroom (3 Credit Hours)
This course will provide students with an overview of the foundations of theory and best practices in literacy instruction. Emphasis is placed on Science of Reading (SOR), including phonemic awareness, phonics, developing decoding foundational skills, vocabulary, fluency, and comprehension. This course adopts an approach rooted in culturally sustaining pedagogy, aiming to create a learning environment that promotes equity and engagement for all learners. The course will support student's professional preparation as a teacher who promotes the success of all students through the implementation of excellent literacy instruction.
Prerequisites: FOUN 301
TLED 430W PK-12 Instructional Technology (3 Credit Hours)
Classroom technology and learning strategies are explored through authentic technology and writing activities. This writing intensive (W) course uses contemporary productivity tools and Internet resources to develop and evaluate progressive instructional techniques and K-12 standards-based curriculum materials, which have changed as a result of the development and integration of technology in the classroom.
Prerequisites: ENGL 110C and ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C with a grade of C or better and TLED 301 or HPE 200 or TLED 474 or SPED 400
TLED 432/532 Developing Instructional Strategies PreK-6: Language Arts (3 Credit Hours)
Following a theory into practice philosophy, students explore, develop, and use instructional strategies, materials, technologies, and activities to promote children's development of attitudes, behaviors, and concepts in language arts in grades PreK-6 in support of NCTE national instructional standards and the Virginia Standards of Learning.
Pre- or corequisite: TLED 426
TLED 435/535 Developing Instructional Strategies PreK-6: Social Studies (3 Credit Hours)
Following a theory into practice philosophy, students explore, develop, and use instructional strategies, materials, technologies, and activities to promote children's development of attitudes, behaviors, and concepts in social studies in grades PreK-6 in support of NCSS national instructional standards and the Virginia Standards of Learning.
Corequisites: TLED 432
TLED 451/551 Developing Instructional Strategies for Teaching in the Middle/High School: English (3 Credit Hours)
Following a theory/research-into-practice philosophy, students explore, develop, and use instructional strategies, materials, technologies, and activities to promote the development of attitudes, behaviors, and concepts in English, grades 6-12, informed by national instructional standards and the Virginia Standards of Learning; 35 hours of teaching practicum required.
Prerequisites: TLED 301 or TLED 430W or SPED 313 , a criminal background check, acceptance into teacher education, no grade less than C- in content area and professional education core, minimum major and overall GPA of at least 2.75
Corequisites: TLED 483
TLED 452/552 Developing Instructional Strategies for Teaching in Middle/High School: Math and Science (3 Credit Hours)
This science and mathematics course will provide methods for teaching diverse learners through culturally sustaining pedagogy, inquiry-oriented, and problem solving strategies using technology and engineering design principles. Students in this course take a required practicum (35 hours) in a secondary science or mathematics classroom to complete assigned content-focused activities.
Corequisites: TLED 483
TLED 455/555 Developing Instructional Strategies for Teaching in the Middle/High School: Social Studies (3 Credit Hours)
Following a theory/research-into-practice philosophy, students explore, develop, and use instructional strategies, materials, technologies, and activities to promote the development of attitudes, behaviors, and concepts in social studies, grades 6-12, informed by national instructional standards and the Virginia Standards of Learning; 35 hours of teaching practicum required.
Prerequisites: TLED 301 , TLED 430W , SPED 313 , a criminal background check, acceptance into teacher education, no grade less than C- in content area and professional education core, minimum major and overall GPA of at least 2.75
Corequisites: TLED 483
TLED 468/568 Language Acquisition and Reading for Students with Diverse Learning Needs (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides an overview of normal language development and language disorders which impact the acquisition of language based curriculum skills such as listening, speaking, reading, and written expression.  Emphasis is on instructional techniques to assist students with diverse learning needs to achieve reading and comprehension skills.  Effective reading strategies and curricula for individuals with disabilities will also be reviewed.
Prerequisites: junior standing
TLED 474/574 Foundations and Contemporary Issues in Early Childhood Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course addresses current issues related to children and families in early childhood settings.  Contemporary research on pedagogical and formative assessment practices related to the education of young children will be discussed through critical exploration. This course will also have an associated 40 hour practicum (20 hours in an infant or toddler classroom and 20 hours in a preschool age classroom).
Prerequisites: Instructor approval required
TLED 478/578 Integrating Instruction Across the Curriculum PreK-6 (3 Credit Hours)
Following a theory into practice philosophy and building on the instructional strategies for specific disciplines, students explore, develop, and use advanced instructional materials, technologies, and activities to promote interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary instruction across the curriculum in grades PreK-6 in support of national standards and the Virginia Standards of Learning. The field experience component (40 hours) includes participation in prek-3 and 4th-6th grade classrooms in an accredited public or non-public school, per program requirement.
Prerequisites: Admission to an approved teacher education program and any two of the following courses: TLED 432 , TLED 435 , STEM 433 , or STEM 434
TLED 479/579 Classroom Management and Practice PreK-3; PreK-6 (3 Credit Hours)
Course prepares prospective PreK-3 and PreK-6 teachers to provide instruction and management addressing the intellectual, physical, emotional and social needs of PreK-6 learners founded in empirically based practice.  The field based component (70 hours) includes participation in PreK-3 and 4th-6th grade classrooms in an accredited public or non-public school.  Students in the Prek-3 program are required to complete 35 hours in the Children's Learning and Research Center. Attendance at seminars and debriefing sessions is required.
Prerequisites: Admission to an approved teacher education program and any two of the following courses: TLED 432 , TLED 435 , STEM 433 , or STEM 434
TLED 480/580 Multicultural Young Adult Literature in Schools (3 Credit Hours)
This course will explore the reading and teaching of diverse young adult literature. Topics addressed include ideas about adolescents and their learning practices; characteristics of young adult literature and literary criticism; analysis of texts from a range of young adult genres; methods for teaching young adult literature; and lesson and unit design.
Prerequisites: Junior standing
TLED 483/583 Seminar in Teacher Education (1 Credit Hour)
Explores issues, problems, concerns, and processes related to teaching and to entering the profession of teaching.  Passing scores on Elementary Education Multiple Subjects Assessment in licensure content area, passing scores on the Virginia Communication and Literacy Assessment (VCLA), and where appropriate passing scores on  Reading for Virginia Educators are required to pass this course.
Prerequisites: Admission to an approved teacher education program and Senior standing
TLED 485 Teacher Candidate Internship (12 Credit Hours)
Internship in school.  Available for pass/fail grading only.
Prerequisites: completion of all program requirements and admission into an approved program in teacher education
TLED 486/586 Student Teaching for Special Endorsement (3-6 Credit Hours)
Internship in school.  Available for pass/fail grading only.
Prerequisites: Collegiate Professional Certificate and/or completion of an approved program in teacher education, passing scores on Praxis Core examination or equivalent SAT or ACT scores as established by VA Board of Education, passing scores on the appropriate Praxis II content examination, passing score on the Virginia Communication and Literacy Assessment, departmental approval, permission of the director of teacher education services, meet grade requirement in the specific content area and professional education core, minimum major and overall GPA of at least 2.75, and a criminal background check
TLED 487 Teacher Candidate Internship for Early Childhood Education (12 Credit Hours)
Field-based 14-week experiences in the early childhood setting that include a minimum of 150 hours of direct instruction. The teacher candidate internship is the culminating experience of all teacher education programs. This experience is a crucial part of a teacher candidate’s preparation to becoming a professional educator.
Prerequisites: TLED 493 and admission to an approved teacher education program
TLED 488 Teacher Candidate Internship - Elementary Education (12 Credit Hours)
Five days per week for 14 weeks. Available for pass/fail grading only. Provides practice in teaching in grades PK-6 and in analyzing teaching approaches and behaviors. Examines instructional problems and concerns.
Prerequisites: TLED 478 and TLED 479 ; completion of an approved program in teacher education PreK-6; passing scores on the appropriate PRAXIS multiple subject assessment content examination, Reading for Virginia Educators examination, and the Virginia Communication and Literacy Assessment; no grade less than C- in content area and professional education core; and minimum major and overall GPA of at least 2.75
TLED 490 The Child and the Family: PreK-3 (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the familial lives of young children (Birth through Grade 3) and supports understandings of working with parents and families in early childhood. Family systems theory provides the basis for study and guides understandings of contemporary family structures. The stages of the family life cycle are explored; principles of healthy family functioning are emphasized to promote healthy growth for children.
Prerequisites: instructor approval required
TLED 492 Integrating Instruction: Mathematics and Science Across the Early Childhood Curriculum (3 Credit Hours)
This course emphasizes the development of young children's problem solving skills, strategies, and abilities and the promotion of active science and math explorations within early childhood classrooms. Multiple perspectives and approaches to planning, teaching, and assessing science and mathematics in the early childhood classroom are explored and practiced. This course includes a 40 hour practicum experience in an early childhood classroom.
Prerequisites: MATH 302 , TLED 328 , and admission to an approved teacher education program
TLED 493 Integrating Literacy and Social Studies Across the PreK - 3 Curriculum (3 Credit Hours)
This course emphasizes the development of young children's multiple literacies and the promotion of active literacy and social studies explorations within early childhood classrooms.  Multiple perspectives and approaches to planning, teaching, and assessing literacy and social studies in the early childhood classroom are explored and practiced. This course includes a 40 hour practicum experience in an early childhood classroom.
Pre- or corequisite: TLED 426
TLED 495/595 Topics in Education (1-4 Credit Hours)
Explores contemporary problems and trends in education.  Emphasis is placed upon topics related to curriculum, instructional strategies, and evaluation.
Prerequisites: junior or graduate standing
TLED 496/596 Topics in Education (1-3 Credit Hours)
Cannot be applied to a Master of Science in Education degree in the Department of Teaching and Learning.  Explores contemporary problems and trends in education.  Emphasis is placed upon topics related to curriculum, instructional strategies, and evaluation.
Prerequisites: junior or graduate standing
TLED 497/597 Independent Study (1-3 Credit Hours)
Hours to be arranged. Allows the student to engage in independent study of issues and trends in education. Emphasis is placed upon topics related to curriculum, instructional strategies, and evaluation.
Prerequisites: junior standing
TLED 532 Developing Instructional Strategies PreK-6: Language Arts (3 Credit Hours)
Following a theory into practice philosophy, students explore, develop, and use instructional strategies, materials, technologies, and activities to promote children's development of attitudes, behaviors, and concepts in language arts in grades PreK-6 in support of NCTE national instructional standards and the Virginia Standards of Learning.
Prerequisites: a grade of C or higher in TLED 617 and TLED 468 / TLED 568
TLED 535 Developing Instructional Strategies PreK-6: Social Studies (3 Credit Hours)
Following a theory into practice philosophy, students explore, develop, and use instructional strategies, materials, technologies, and activities to promote children's development of attitudes, behaviors, and concepts in social studies in grades PreK-6 in support of NCSS national instructional standards and the Virginia Standards of Learning.
Prerequisites: TLED 617
TLED 551 Developing Instructional Strategies for Teaching in the Middle/High School: English (3 Credit Hours)
Following a theory/research-into-practice philosophy, students explore, develop, and use instructional strategies, materials, technologies, and activities to promote the development of attitudes, behaviors, and concepts in English, grades 6-12, informed by national instructional standards and the Virginia Standards of Learning; 35 hours of teaching practicum required.
Prerequisites: TLED 608 , TLED 617 , SPED 613 , a criminal background check, acceptance into teacher education, no grade less than C- in content area and professional education core, minimum major and overall GPA of at least 3.0
Corequisites: TLED 583
TLED 552 Developing Instructional Strategies for Teaching in Middle/High School: Math and Science (3 Credit Hours)
This science and mathematics course will provide methods for teaching diverse learners through culturally sustaining pedagogy, inquiry-oriented, and problem solving strategies using technology and engineering design principles. Students in this course take a required practicum (35 hours) in a secondary science or mathematics classroom to complete assigned content-focused activities.
Corequisites: TLED 583
TLED 555 Developing Instructional Strategies for Teaching in the Middle/High School: Social Studies (3 Credit Hours)
Following a theory/research-into-practice philosophy, students explore, develop, and use instructional strategies, materials, technologies, and activities to promote the development of attitudes, behaviors, and concepts in social studies, grades 6-12, informed by national instructional standards and the Virginia Standards of Learning; 35 hours of teaching practicum required.
Prerequisites: TLED 608 , TLED 617 , SPED 613 , a criminal background check, acceptance into teacher education, no grade less than C- in content area and professional education core, minimum major and overall GPA of at least 3.0
Corequisites: TLED 583
TLED 568 Language Acquisition and Reading for Students with Diverse Learning Needs (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides an overview of normal language development and language disorders which impact the acquisition of language based curriculum skills such as listening, speaking, reading, and written expression.  Emphasis is on instructional techniques to assist students with diverse learning needs to achieve reading and comprehension skills.  Effective reading strategies and curricula for individuals with disabilities will also be reviewed.
TLED 574 Foundations and Contemporary Issues in Early Childhood Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course addresses current issues related to children and families in early childhood settings.  Contemporary research on pedagogical and formative assessment practices related to the education of young children will be discussed through critical exploration. This course will also have an associated 40 hour practicum (20 hours in an infant or toddler classroom and 20 hours in a preschool age classroom).
TLED 578 Integrating Instruction Across the Curriculum PreK-6 (3 Credit Hours)
Following a theory into practice philosophy and building on the instructional strategies for specific disciplines, students explore, develop, and use advanced instructional materials, technologies, and activities to promote interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary instruction across the curriculum in grades PreK-6 in support of national standards and the Virginia Standards of Learning. The field experience component (40 hours) includes participation in prek-3 and 4th-6th grade classrooms in an accredited public or non-public school, per program requirement.
Prerequisites: TLED 301 or TLED 290, passing scores on PRAXIS Core or met equivalent scores as established by VA Board of Education, a criminal background check, acceptance into teacher education, no grade less than C in content area and professional education core, minimum major overall GPA of at least 3.0 and at least two of the following: TLED 532 , TLED 535 , STEM 533 , and STEM 534
TLED 579 Classroom Management and Practice PreK-3; PreK-6 (3 Credit Hours)
Course prepares prospective PreK-3 and PreK-6 teachers to provide instruction and management addressing the intellectual, physical, emotional and social needs of PreK-6 learners founded in empirically based practice.  The field based component (70 hours) includes participation in PreK-3 and 4th-6th grade classrooms in an accredited public or non-public school.  Students in the Prek-3 program are required to complete 35 hours in the Children's Learning and Research Center. Attendance at seminars and debriefing sessions is required.
Prerequisites: TLED 301 , passing scores on Praxis Core or met equivalent scores as established by VA Board of Education, a criminal background check, acceptance into teacher education, no grade less than C in content area and professional education core, minimum major and overall GPA of at least 2.8 and at least two of the following courses: TLED 432 or TLED 532 , TLED 435 or TLED 535 , TLED 478 or TLED 578 , STEM 433 or STEM 533 , STEM 434 or STEM 534
TLED 580 Multicultural Young Adult Literature in Schools (3 Credit Hours)
This course will explore the reading and teaching of diverse young adult literature. Topics addressed include ideas about adolescents and their learning practices; characteristics of young adult literature and literary criticism; analysis of texts from a range of young adult genres; methods for teaching young adult literature; and lesson and unit design.
TLED 583 Seminar in Teacher Education (1 Credit Hour)
This course explores issues, problems, concerns, and processes related to teaching and entering the profession of teaching.  Passing score on Elementary Education Multiple Subjects Assessment in licensure content area, passing scores on the Virginia Communication and Literacy Assessment (VCLA), and where appropriate passing scores on Reading for Virginia Educators are required to pass this course.
Prerequisites: admitted to approved teacher education program
TLED 586 Student Teaching for Special Endorsement (3-6 Credit Hours)
Internship in school.  Available for pass/fail grading only.
Prerequisites: Collegiate Professional Certificate and/or completion of an approved program in teacher education, passing scores on the Praxis Core examination or equivalent SAT or ACT scores as established by VA Board of Education, passing scores on the appropriate Praxis II content examination,  passing score on the Virginia Communication and Literacy Assessment, departmental approval, permission of the director of teacher education services, meet grade requirement in the specific content area and professional education core, minimum major and overall GPA of at least 3.0, and a criminal background check
TLED 595 Topics in Education (1-4 Credit Hours)
Explores contemporary problems and trends in education.  Emphasis is placed upon topics related to curriculum, instructional strategies, and evaluation.
Prerequisites: graduate standing
TLED 596 Topics in Education (1-3 Credit Hours)
Cannot be applied to a Master of Science in Education degree in the Department of Teaching and Learning.  Explores contemporary problems and trends in education.  Emphasis is placed upon topics related to curriculum, instructional strategies, and evaluation.
Prerequisites: graduate standing
TLED 597 Independent Study (1-3 Credit Hours)
Hours to be arranged. Allows the student to engage in independent study of issues and trends in education. Emphasis is placed upon topics related to curriculum, instructional strategies, and evaluation.
Prerequisites: graduate standing
TLED 608 Foundations of Education and Instructional Assessment (3 Credit Hours)
Provides students with an understanding of historical, philosophical, economic, and sociological issues in American education, their effect on student achievement, and the impact of social change on existing institutions.  Includes the development of instruction based on assessment data including the use, construction, interpretation, and analysis of valid assessments.  A 30-hour observation/participation experience is required in an appropriate prek-6, 6-8, or 6-12 grade level.
Prerequisites: graduate standing
TLED 614 Arts in Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide students with a range of approaches for thinking about the arts in education, with specific emphasis on the visual arts. It assumes that life in the 21st century calls for competencies that are critical, flexible, collaborative, and relational and forwards artistic thinking as complementary to this need. In addition to course readings that explore cognitive, developmental, cultural, and social dimensions of art and learning, students will be asked to participate in activities associated with making and viewing art, as well as consider implications for designing K-12 curriculum.
TLED 615 Teaching in the Middle School (4 Credit Hours)
Focusing on middle school teaching, this course examines the organization, curriculum, instructional strategies, classroom management techniques, and teaching methods for working with young adolescents.  Also covered are middle school guidance, exploratories, scheduling, and parent-school relations.  A 30-hour practicum in a middle school is required.
Prerequisites: Graduate standing
TLED 617 Digital Age Teaching and Learning (3 Credit Hours)
In this class, contemporary digital tools and Internet resources are used to develop instructional plans and contribute to teaching techniques. The course is designed with three components: effectively integrating technology into the delivery of the curriculum, evidence-based good teaching practices utilizing technology that spans across grades and subject levels, and the technologies that support those practices. Upon completion of this course students should be able to pass, or apply for exemption from their school district's TSIP exam.
TLED 618 Assessment and Evaluation in PK-12 Schools (3 Credit Hours)
This course will prepare teachers for the appropriate use of formative and summative assessment and evaluation principles in support of students' learning and development. Students will learn to analyze assessment data to evaluate reliability and validity, interpret student performance, and make instructional decisions.
TLED 620 Education and Public Policy (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide students with an understanding of the political nature of education and its implications for teaching and learning. Students will be expected to critically consider the development and implementation of formal policies designed to improve education in U.S. schools. To do so, students will consider historical and contemporary trends in educational theory and research to situate current policies and practices in our nation’s schools, with a clear focus on understanding the range and scope of policy dilemmas in the public pre-K–12 sector of education.
TLED 621 Foundations and History of Education (3 Credit Hours)
This seminar explores foundational ideas of democratic education. While focusing on the contexts and conditions of contemporary education, it traces the roots of educational theory and philosophy from the formation of the common school to the policy reforms of the 21st century. This look at the present through the past provides insight into the interactions between social, economic, political, ideological, and environmental factors and its impact on the purposes of education, school curriculum and ideas of measurement and evaluation. Students will be expected to consider the implications of/for democratic education, historically and presently, as it relates to issues of race, class, gender, and multiculturalism.
TLED 623 Introduction to the Contemporary Student (3 Credit Hours)
The course is designed to explore contemporary youth as learners with multiple dimensions of identity, including cultural and linguistic diversity. Topics explored include physical, social, emotional, language and conceptual development; digital and print production and consumption; and the selection, development, and use of appropriate curricula, methodologies, and materials for the contemporary student. The course includes a practicum experience (20 hours) as well.
TLED 626 Teaching Language, Culture, and Society in Elementary Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course will provide methods for teaching diverse learners through culturally sustaining pedagogy, effective methods for designing instructional strategies and materials for teaching social studies and language arts in the elementary grades. Students in this course take a corequisite practicum (40 hours) in elementary classrooms to complete assigned activities designed to further practical development.
TLED 627 Classroom Management, Discipline, and Practice (3 Credit Hours)
This course prepares prospective PreK-3 and PreK-6 teachers to provide instruction and management addressing the intellectual, physical, emotional and social needs of PreK-6 learners founded in empirically based practice. The field based component (40 hours) includes participation in PreK-3 and 4th-6th grade classrooms in an accredited public or non-public school setting.
TLED 628 Middle Level Philosophy, School Organization and the Young Adolescent (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on theories and principles of adolescent development and learning in family, school, and community contexts.  Candidates examine adolescents from biological, psychological, cognitive, and social perspectives. This includes how adolescents learn and what motivates them to learn, and how schools contribute to adolescents’ growth by teaching in ways that “fit” their developmental and cultural needs.
TLED 630 Develop and Enhancing Literacy with Culturally and Linguistical Diverse Learner Across Content Areas (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on the development and implementation of strategies that will accommodate how language and cultural differences affect communication and learning; knowledge of the impact of language-based curriculum skills such as listening, speaking, reading, and writing; instructional techniques needed to assist individuals identified as culturally, linguistically, and academically diverse in achieving reading and comprehension skills; comprehension strategies; and an understanding of reading across the disciplines.
TLED 631 Classroom Based Inquiry (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to integrate the research on effective teaching and learning with theory and practice through the lens of democratic education. As an introductory survey course, the focus will be on developing the competencies related to the critical consumption of research literature in order to further the teacher candidates’ understanding of the physical, social, emotional, speech and language and intellectual development of children.
TLED 632 Multicultural Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course will explore critical multicultural education situated within culturally sustaining pedagogical practices to explore issues related to race, ethnicity, class, gender, sexuality, religion, power, and language use; however, this course is not about a celebration of difference, but is designed to enable students to investigate how socially constructed categories such as social class, race, gender, sexual orientation, and disability are used to privilege some and marginalize others.
TLED 633 Middle Level Instruction and Assessment (3 Credit Hours)
This course will provide opportunities to examine the theoretical and practical applications of data-driven decision making, assessments, and curriculum planning for middle level educators. Students will consider adolescent development as well as student behaviors to analyze standards and effectively plan instruction and assessment. Further, students will apply principles of culturally sustaining pedagogy to middle school instruction and assessment planning and practices.
TLED 636 Problems in Education (3 Credit Hours)
Provides practice in the use of quantitative or qualitative techniques, including analytical processes, in solving problems in education. Pass/Fail grading only.
Prerequisites: FOUN 612
TLED 638 Researching Teaching in Elementary and Secondary Grades (3 Credit Hours)
In this course, students will learn the processes of reflective inquiry and conduct informal inquiries of the teaching and learning dynamic in preK-12 school settings. Activities include explorations of professional biography school and classroom culture and practice, student demographics, curriculum, and other critical components of teaching and learning.
Prerequisites: graduate standing
TLED 639 Seminar in Education (3 Credit Hours)
Hours to be arranged.  Explores in depth a variety of current topics, trends and concerns in K-12 education.
Prerequisites: 15 graduate hours in education, including all core courses
TLED 640 The Management of Learning and Instruction (3 Credit Hours)
This course explores classroom and behavior management techniques including teacher-student relationships, rules and procedures, and disciplinary interventions. Emphasis is placed on building a diverse repertoire of approaches to classroom management at the individual and classroom level. Candidates will develop a classroom management plan that includes techniques for engaging families.
TLED 643 Introduction to the Contemporary Student (3 Credit Hours)
The course is designed to be an exploration of contemporary youth as learners situated in/by many identities, including those aspects of self related to cultural and linguistic diversity. Among the subjects to be explored are: physical, social, emotional, language and conceptual development; digital and print production and consumption; and the selection, development, and use of appropriate curricula, methodologies, and materials for the contemporary student.
TLED 646 Classroom Based Inquiry (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to integrate the research on effective teaching and learning with theory and practice through the lens of democratic education. As an introductory survey course, the focus will be on developing the competencies related to the critical consumption of research literature in order to further the candidates’ understanding of the physical, social, emotional, speech and language and intellectual development of children. Diverse approaches based upon culturally responsive behavioral, cognitive, affective, social, and ecological theory and practice will be utilized in guiding the learning experience of the course.
TLED 647 Education and Public Policy (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide students with an understanding of the political nature of education and its implications for teaching and learning. Students will be expected to critically consider the development and implementation of formal policies designed to improve education in US schools. To do so, students will consider historical and contemporary trends in educational theory and research to situate current policies and practices in our nation’s schools, with a clear focus on understanding the range and scope of policy dilemmas in the public pre-K–12 sector of education.
TLED 650 Mathematics Specialists as Teacher Leaders (3 Credit Hours)
The critical characteristics and responsibilities of Mathematics Specialists as teacher leaders will be explored. Structuring professional learning for classroom teachers through peer coaching, mentoring, observations, conferencing and relational group learning will be explored for developing teacher leadership capacity.
TLED 651 Teaching Mathematics for All Using Culturally Responsive Approaches (3 Credit Hours)
Adapting the mathematics teaching and learning practices to accommodate diverse populations will be explored. The essential knowledge and understanding needed by mathematics specialists to support classroom teachers to effectively utilize culturally responsive pedagogies to differentiate instruction and support all learners.
TLED 653 Participatory Action Research for Mathematics Specialists (3 Credit Hours)
Participatory Action Research is introduced to conduct community, school, or classroom-based research for improving mathematics learning and teaching.
TLED 654 Practicum for Mathematics Specialists (3 Credit Hours)
This course requires candidates to complete a 150-hour practicum that is designed to provide opportunities and learning experiences to refine and reinforce mathematical and leadership skills, understandings, and dispositions for optimal performance as a Mathematics Specialist.
Pre- or corequisite: TLED 650
TLED 658 Mathematical Assessment for Data Driven Decisions (3 Credit Hours)
Selected key differences between assessment for and of learning will be examined. Students will design quality assessment systems that provide numerical and descriptive information about student learning and explore ways to use these data to drive instructional decisions for improved learning.
TLED 666 Internship/Student Teaching and Seminar (9 Credit Hours)
Five days per week for 14 weeks.  Available for pass/fail grading only.   Provides practice in teaching in grades 6-8 and in analyzing teaching approaches and behaviors.  Examines instructional problems and concerns.
Prerequisites: completion of an approved program in teacher education, 6-8, passing scores on PRAXIS I or equivalent SAT or ACT scores as established by VA State Board of Education, passing scores on the appropriate PRAXIS II content examination, departmental approval, permission of the director of teacher education services, no grade less than  C- in content area and professional education core, minimum major and overall GPA of at least 2.75
TLED 667 Internship/Student Teaching and Seminar in PreK-3 (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides practice in teaching in grades PK-3 and in analyzing teaching approaches and behaviors. It examines instructional problems and concerns. Each semester the candidate must maintain continuance and a 3.0 GPA to enroll in each teacher candidate internship semester for a total of 9 semester credit hours. Available for pass/fail grading only.
Prerequisites: admission to the approved teacher education program; completion of all undergraduate content courses, professional education courses, and all Virginia Department of Education licensure assessments for admission into the ECE graduate program; no grade less than C in content area and professional education core; minimum major and overall GPA of at least 2.8; and permission of the department
TLED 668 Internship/Student Teaching and Seminar (9 Credit Hours)
Five days per week for 14 weeks.  Available for pass/fail grading only.   Provides practice in teaching in grades PK-6 and in analyzing teaching approaches and behaviors. Examines instructional problems and concerns.
Prerequisites: completion of an approved program in teacher education PreK-6, passing scores on PRAXIS I or equivalent SAT or ACT scores as established by VA State Board of Education, passing scores on the appropriate PRAXIS II content examination, departmental approval, permission of the director of teacher education services, no grade less than C- in content area and professional education core, minimum major and overall GPA of at least 2.75
TLED 669 Internship/Student Teaching and Seminar (3-9 Credit Hours)
Five days per week for 6-14 weeks.  Available for pass/fail grading only.  Provides practice in teaching and in analyzing teaching approaches and behaviors. Examines instructional problems and concerns.
Prerequisites: Completion of an approved program in teacher education, passing scores on the appropriate licensure assessments, departmental approval, permission of the director of teacher education services, no grade less than C- in content area and professional education core, minimum major and overall GPA of a least 2.75, GPA of 3.0 required for graduate programs
TLED 671 Practitioner Inquiry in Elementary and Secondary Grades (3 Credit Hours)
In this course, students will explore research methods and forms of data collection and analysis associated with practitioner inquiry, including self-study and action research. Students will be required to design a research proposal using practitioner inquiry research methods.
TLED 672 Integrating Children’s Lit, Language Arts & Social Studies Across Early Child Curriculum (3 Credit Hours)
This course emphasizes the development of K-6 students’ multiple and multimodal literacies and the promotion of active literacy and social studies explorations within the early and elementary classroom and aligned with the Virginia Standards of Learning. The course will focus on the five domains of social studies education and children’s holistic literacy development. Multiple perspectives and approaches to planning, teaching, and assessing literacy and social studies in the early and elementary classroom are explored and practiced. This course includes a 35-hour practicum experience in an early or elementary classroom.
TLED 673 Integrating Science and Mathematics Across the Early Childhood and Elementary Curriculum (3 Credit Hours)
This course emphasizes the development of young children’s inquiry and problem-solving skills and content learning through inquiry-based science and problem-based mathematics explorations. Multiple perspectives and approaches to planning, teaching, and assessing science and mathematics in the early childhood and elementary grades classroom are explored and practiced. This course includes a 35-hour practicum experience in an early or elementary classroom.
TLED 676 Teaching Diverse Learners in Elementary & Secondary Schools (3 Credit Hours)
The course will emphasize evidence-based instructional practices and strategies to teach students with diverse interests, abilities, and prior knowledge. This course examines the impact of students' varied home support mechanisms and resources on the academic skills among students in contemporary schools. Additionally, the course will focus on instructional strategies that are varied and accessible from many perspectives; emphasis is given to methods of instruction that have evidence to support resulting improved student outcomes.
TLED 677 Learning and Development Across Historical and Contemporary Educational Environments (3 Credit Hours)
This course explores foundational ideas of democratic education in light of contemporary understandings of how children and youth construct knowledge. While focusing on the contexts and conditions of contemporary education, it traces the roots of educational theory and philosophy from the formation of the common school to the policy reforms of the 21st century. This understanding is coupled with the major theories of children's learning and development as well as all aspects of their physical, social, emotional, and intellectual development from birth through adolescence. The course requires that students learn the concepts and terminology associated with each theory and be able to use them in analyzing, interpreting, promoting, and evaluating children's growth and learning in the classroom.
TLED 679 Advanced Classroom Management and Practicum in PreK-6 (3 Credit Hours)
This course will examine advanced methods for educators to use in order to make their classroom teaching and management more efficient and effective.  This will include supervised involvement of the student in a practicum setting where the student, instructor and classroom teacher work together closely to develop knowledge and gain expertise in teaching children in a positive and effective learning environment. A weekly seminar is required.
TLED 680 Teacher Candidate Internship – MAT Program (5 Credit Hours)
Field-based internship. Provides practice in teaching and in analyzing teaching approaches and behaviors. Examines instructional problems and concerns.  This experience is a crucial part of a teacher candidate’s preparation to becoming a Professional Educator.
Prerequisites: Completion of an approved program in teacher education, passing scores on the appropriate licensure assessments, departmental approval, permission of the director of teacher education services, no grade less than C- in content area and professional education core, minimum major and overall GPA of a least 2.75
TLED 681 Critical Pedagogy in Early Childhood (3 Credit Hours)
Building from early childhood traditions that recognize the importance of children’s participation in learning, students will employ critical perspectives of early childhood to develop awareness of paradigmatic changes in thinking about young children by considering the heterogeneous nature of childhood. Students will examine and critically reflect on models of the learner and curriculum contexts in early education through an inter-disciplinary focus that views childhood as a complex web of interdependence. This course will provide students with an understanding of how cultural texts and representation practices shape curricular and pedagogical decisions as well as resources for planning curriculum and instruction from constructivist paradigms.
Prerequisites: Departmental approval required
TLED 687 Pedagogy Principles & Models of Instruction (3 Credit Hours)
Students will investigate and analyze a range of pedagogical approaches from the objectivist, constructivist and social family of learning models including major psychological and philosophical approaches. Students will assess the syntax of instructional models that can be applied across a variety of content areas and demonstrate their understanding of various teaching models through the development of lesson plans in their content area.
TLED 690 The Child and the Family (3 Credit Hours)
This course will examine children in the context of the families in which they live.  Family systems theory provides the basis for study, and students do an in-depth examination of their own families of origin.  The stages of the family life cycle are taught; principles of healthy family functioning are emphasized to promote healthy growth for children.
TLED 695 Topics in Education (1-3 Credit Hours)
Provides opportunities for graduate students to explore current topics, trends and issues related to curriculum, instructional strategies, and evaluation.
Prerequisites: Graduate standing
TLED 697 Independent Study (1-4 Credit Hours)
Hours to be arranged. Provides opportunities for the master's student to do independent research in an area of his/her particular interests and needs.
Prerequisites: graduate standing
TLED 699 Thesis (3-6 Credit Hours)
Master’s-level research and thesis in topics related to curriculum, instructional strategies, and evaluation in educational settings.
Prerequisites: graduate standing and permission of the instructor
TLED 701 Teacher as Leader (3 Credit Hours)
This course prepares elementary and secondary teachers to become facilitators of change in schools and communities. They will explore various leader roles in the K-12 context, including exemplary and critically minded practitioner, curriculum decision-maker, researcher, advocate, and facilitator of job-embedded professional development
TLED 702 Coaching and Mentoring (3 Credit Hours)
This course prepares teachers to be effective coaches of teacher candidates and inservice teachers in K-12 settings. They will develop understandings of student-centered, evidence-based models of coaching and mentoring, and acquire specific knowledge and skills of effective coaching and mentoring.
TLED 703 Curriculum Leadership (3 Credit Hours)
This course prepares teachers to enact dynamic curriculum leadership. They will explore curriculum as a design for learning, a set of school experiences based on goals and values, that take into account diverse learners and other stakeholders, including families and communities.
TLED 704 Collaboration and Advocacy (3 Credit Hours)
The purpose of this course is to develop teacher leaders’ skills in facilitation, collaboration, and advocacy at the school, division, and community levels. Emphasis is placed on engaging with diverse stakeholders through culturally responsive means to foster student academic achievement.
TLED 724 Curriculum Development Principles and Practices in Elementary Schools (3 Credit Hours)
This course will engage students in the on-going debates about the development and shaping of curricula with an emphasis on how these forces play out in elementary schools. The course requires students to investigate the scope and components of curriculum planning, development, and delivery. Students are first expected to develop an understanding of the many forms of dynamic tension at play in curriculum debates, and, subsequently, they are required to develop an understanding of specific ways in which teachers and curriculum leaders can shape the instructional process, and select and use curriculum materials.
TLED 725 Curriculum Development Principles and Practices in Secondary Schools (3 Credit Hours)
This course will engage students in the on-going debates about the development and shaping of curricula with an emphasis on how these forces play out in secondary schools. The course requires students to investigate the scope and components of curriculum planning, development, and delivery. Students are first expected to develop an understanding of the many forms of dynamic tension at play in curriculum debates, and, subsequently, they are required to develop an understanding of specific ways in which teachers and curriculum leaders can shape the instructional process, and select and use curriculum materials.
TLED 734 Problems of Teaching in the Elementary Grades (3 Credit Hours)
This course addresses the prevailing issues and trends affecting elementary education in the United States. An understanding of contemporary issues that influence education will assist students in utilizing a critical lens to address those issues in their classrooms. This course provides an opportunity to examine and explore significant theorists, researchers and readings considered foundational as well as contemporary related to sociocultural and political issues within the field of elementary education.
TLED 735 Problems of Teaching in the Secondary Grades (3 Credit Hours)
This course addresses the prevailing issues and trends affecting secondary education in the United States. An understanding of contemporary issues that influence education will assist students in utilizing a critical lens to address those issues in their classrooms. This course provides an opportunity to examine and explore significant theorists, researchers and readings considered foundational as well as contemporary related to sociocultural and political issues within the field of secondary education.
TLED 744 Diversity and Equity in Elementary Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on factors of diversity and social justice that effect decisions elementary teachers must make regarding design and implementation of curriculum, teaching strategies, and materials in order to provide equity and excellence for all learners in the elementary grades.
TLED 745 Diversity and Equity in Secondary Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on factors of diversity and social justice that effect decisions secondary teachers must make regarding design and implementation of curriculum, teaching strategies, and materials in order to provide equity and excellence for all learners in the secondary grades.
TLED 775 English Language Learners in the PK-12 Classroom (3 Credit Hours)
The course is designed to infuse the teachers' competencies related to meeting the instructional needs of English language learners. The course will explore the language, culture, instruction, assessment, and professionalism in order to understand and teach linguistically diverse learners effectively.
TLED 998 Master’s Graduate Credit (1 Credit Hour)
This course is a pass/fail course for master's students in their final semester. It may be taken to fulfill the registration requirement necessary for graduation.  All master's students are required to be registered for at least one graduate credit hour in the semester of their graduation.
Search catalog
