Graduate Courses
BUSN 110 Introduction to Contemporary Business (1 Credit Hour)
Provides students with a preliminary understanding of business and gives them an opportunity to use office productivity software to enhance communications and presentations.  Students should be able to identify career prospects for each of the primary business areas (such as Accounting, Finance, Management, etc.) and basic business terminology.  Office productivity software (word  processing, spreadsheets, and presentation) will be heavily used by the faculty and students for communication in the form of presentations and essays.
BUSN 401/501 Business Planning for Entrepreneurs I (2 Credit Hours)
Students are introduced to readily available resources to research and analyze a comprehensive feasibility process including a clear statement of the business idea/model, selection of the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) codes, and research and analysis of the applicable industry, market and competitors. A marketing strategy, to include pricing, is developed, with emphases on social media and similar outreach tools.
Prerequisites: Junior standing
BUSN 501 Business Planning for Entrepreneurs I (2 Credit Hours)
Students are introduced to readily available resources to research and analyze a comprehensive feasibility process including a clear statement of the business idea/model, selection of the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) codes, and research and analysis of the applicable industry, market and competitors. A marketing strategy, to include pricing, is developed, with emphases on social media and similar outreach tools.
BUSN 800 Seminar in International Business (3 Credit Hours)
This course will provide students with a comprehensive understanding of the environmental issues, institutions, opportunities, challenges, problems and managerial processes that are unique to international business.  Both the micro and macro contexts in which international business is conducted will be examined.
BUSN 801 Research/Teaching Colloquium (1 Credit Hour)
The one-hour Research/Teaching Colloquium is mainly intended to promote research/teaching competencies of doctoral students through their exposure to presentations on and discussions of various topics dealing with research, writing, publishing and effective teaching.  The presentations may be by faculty members, outside speakers or doctoral students.
BUSN 999 Doctoral Graduate Credit (1-10 Credit Hours)
This course is a pass/fail course doctoral students may take to maintain active status after successfully passing the candidacy examination.  All doctoral students are required to be registered for at least one graduate credit hour every semester until their graduation.
Search catalog
