No Undergraduate courses found.
READ 612 Action Research in Reading (3 Credit Hours)
This course will introduce students to action research, a form of self-reflective, systematic inquiry by educators of their own practice.  Students will learn about research methods, design, and implementation, and they will develop action research proposals based on a line of structured inquiry emanating from events occurring within their own classrooms.  Teachers will study student learning related to their own teaching, a process which allows them to learn about their own instructional practices and to continue monitoring improved student learning.  Conducting action research provides educators with an avenue to reflect on their own teaching practices with the aid of empirical data and engage in self-directed learning with the ultimate goal of improving student learning.  Must have completed 15 Graduate credit hours in reading coursework.
READ 614 Foundations of Literacy Learning (3 Credit Hours)
Surveys theories and historical trends leading up to present day literacy instruction. Participants will learn how to incorporate application of current research to the methods and philosophies of teaching reading and writing. An integrated language model suggests that reading, writing, and thinking be viewed as interrelated, critical processes for exploring and responding to the world. Offers students an opportunity to acquire foundational knowledge of materials, instructional strategies, and assessment tools that support literacy and engaging learners
READ 618 Approaches to Teaching Literature and Writing K-12 (3 Credit Hours)
Explores the theory and practice of teaching literature, including young adult and children's literature, and writing.  Considers some of the characteristics of writing processes, the role of the teacher in structuring and responding to student writing, the role of the teacher in literary text selection, the relationships between writing and literacy understanding, and the authentic assessment of K-12 students' reading, writing and learning.
READ 619 Word Study, Phonics, and Linguistics (3 Credit Hours)
Provides an overview of the field of linguistics, the scientific study of language and word study, an approach to spelling instruction that relies on an understanding of English orthography that incorporates instruction in phonics, spelling and vocabulary.  Students will learn to recognize characteristics of readers and writers at different levels of development.  The course provides multiple opportunities for hands-on practice and application.
READ 620 Multicultural Children’s Literature and Literacy (3 Credit Hours)
Provides for the examination, evaluation, and use of multicultural library materials and resources for elementary and middle school children.
READ 622 Culturally Responsive Literacy for All Learners (3 Credit Hours)
Explores curriculum, instructions, materials and issues related to teaching literacy and language to diverse learners regardless of their ethnic, cultural, linguistic, cognitive, religious, gender, backgrounds, etc.
READ 625 Issues and Trends in Literacy Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides an opportunity for students to explore the critical trends and issues being debated within the field of Literacy Education.  This course will provide students with an in-depth understanding of significant issues, trends, and practices in reading instruction at the K-12 level.  The course is designed to deal with questions and problems of the type facing teachers, supervisors, and administrators.  In addition to providing students with a deeper understanding of current trends and the latest literacy research, this course will also help students to critique ideas and issues surrounding informed instruction within literacy education.
READ 627 School-Wide Assessment and Professional Development (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on the literacy coach's roles and responsibilities in conducting school-wide, needs-based assessments and planning professional development to align with assessments. Multiple perspectives and approaches to considering, piloting, and administering needs-based surveys and analyzing data for schools and school divisions are explored and practiced. Using results, data-based professional development planning is studied and practiced. Through interactive online instruction, lecture, projects, and reflective participation based upon the International Reading Association's Standards and The Virginia Standards of Learning, a professional knowledge base will be developed. This course provides experiences on a variety of levels to further the development of the literacy coach within ODU's Educator as Professional Framework.
READ 628 New Literacies, Digital Technologies, and Learning (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide a context in which in-service teachers can explore a range of "new" literacies and consider their relationships to school-based literacy education.  Participants will explore these new literacies, specifically the socially immersive experiences of youth and their new media practices.  These participating educators will examine the role of multimodality in literacy learning across the curriculum with an emphasis on how to bridge the digital literacies of students' private lives with the traditional print practices valued in school.  Teachers will gain insight into and understanding of how young people's participation in a shifting media landscape can help shape and form learning and literacy in the 21st Century classroom.
READ 637 Problems in Reading Education (3 Credit Hours)
Presents an overview of current reading research and its application to instruction.  Provides study and practice in the use of quantitative or qualitative techniques, including analytical processes, in solving problems in reading education.
Prerequisites: FOUN 612 and 15 hours in Reading Education
READ 680 Literacy Across the Curriculum (3 Credit Hours)
This class has an emphasis on advanced techniques in literacy for classroom teachers who are not reading specialists. Students will develop an understanding of literacy across the curriculum, including a wide variety of instructional strategies and an understanding of the complex nature of literacy within the disciplines. Lecture, demonstrations, development of materials/planning approaches, and practice in the techniques of literacy instruction for K-12 classroom teachers and library media specialists are provided.
Prerequisites: Graduate standing
READ 683 Diagnostic Teaching of Reading in the Classroom (3 Credit Hours)
Provides classroom teachers with strategies/techniques to employ to ongoing diagnosis and remediation through the use of informal and standardized tests to select appropriate instructional strategies for pupils' existing reading capabilities.
READ 685 Organizing and Supervising Reading Program Development (3 Credit Hours)
Presents an overview of the total school reading program (K-12), and not only prepares the prospective reading supervisor to make decisions pertaining to the procurement of materials for the program but also explores modes for integrating reading into the general curriculum.
Prerequisites: 9 graduate hours in reading
READ 686 Advanced Language Development and Reading (3 Credit Hours)
Explores current theories of cognitive development and their relationship to language development and reading as bases for evaluating methods and materials of teaching reading and the related communicative arts: spelling, writing, and speaking.
Prerequisites: Graduate standing
READ 689 Survey of Reading Instruction (3 Credit Hours)
Surveys the linguistic, psychological, sociological, philosophical, and historical foundations of current reading pedagogy.
Prerequisites: graduate standing
READ 693 Practicum in Reading (3 Credit Hours)
Hours to be arranged.  This course provides graduate teachers with opportunities to practice and further refine their understandings of the reading process in clinical and classroom settings.  Teachers provide both individual and group reading lessons with students from the local community.  Advanced diagnostic tests of learning processes and intellectual capacity are covered.  These advanced diagnostic techniques are in addition to those covered in the initial diagnostic reading course.
Prerequisites: 15 hours in graduate reading to include READ 683 and permission of the instructor
READ 998 Master's Graduate Credit (1 Credit Hour)
This course is a pass/fail course for master's students in their final semester. It may be taken to fulfill the registration requirement necessary for graduation.  All master's students are required to be registered for at least one graduate credit hour in the semester of their graduation.
Search catalog
