Graduate Courses
ENTR 100 Survey of Entrepreneurship and Innovation (1 Credit Hour)
This course represents an introduction to pertinent topics related to entrepreneurship and innovation. Students will be exposed to numerous topics through guest speakers supplemented by readings and class discussion. Topics include conceptualization, creativity, patents, capitalization, venture formation, commercialization, market assessment, project management, and launch.  A multidisciplinary perspective is emphasized.
ENTR 201S Introduction to Entrepreneurship (3 Credit Hours)
This course will broaden students' views of careers and work in an increasingly global and diverse world. It provides students intellectual perspectives of entrepreneurship, and engages students in the search for knowledge regarding opportunity value and resource management. Basic analytical and critical thinking skills are developed for making reasoned judgments concerning organization creation.
ENTR 301 Fundamentals of Entrepreneurship (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed for students interested in learning about entrepreneurship. It examines entrepreneurship from different perspectives, and engages students in opportunity recognition, value creation and resource management. Basic analytical and critical thinking skills are developed for making reasoned judgments concerning venture creation. Students will learn how to improve the likelihood of success of business start-ups. Course will also be valuable for students interested in consulting with small businesses or launching new divisions in large businesses.
Prerequisites: Junior standing
ENTR 368 Entrepreneurship Internship (1-3 Credit Hours)
Students complete an entrepreneurial project or assignment for a business, non-profit agency, or other organization. Students should work 50 hours for each credit and complete course assignments integrating coursework and entrepreneurial experiences.
Prerequisites: ENTR 201S and approval of the program coordinator and Strome Entrepreneurial Center director
ENTR 410 Managing Small and Family Businesses (3 Credit Hours)
This course investigates the risks and challenges of small businesses with particular emphasis on family businesses. It focuses on knowledge necessary to support the continuity of such businesses. Topics may include: the entrepreneurial life, types of small businesses, getting started, financing and ownership, professionalizing and growth, and change, adaptation, and innovation to stay in business.
Prerequisites: MGMT 325 , ENTR 201S , and ENTR 301
ENTR 450 Innovation Project (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides students with a unique cross-disciplinary, team-based course experience in the area of innovation. The focal point will be a real-life innovation problem sponsored by a company (or organization) on which students will provide presentations and a final report. The course is directed through ODU’s Strome Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation.
Prerequisites: junior or senior standing
ENTR 476/576 Social Entrepreneurship (3 Credit Hours)
The class draws students from all disciplines to collaborate with each other, faculty and community members as they co-design project-based solutions to pertinent social issues. Topics related to social entrepreneurship vary each year. Guided by distinguished faculty, students analyze their topic through in-depth classroom and field research, readings and off-campus trips.
Prerequisites: ENTR 201S or PAS 300
ENTR 477/577 Design Thinking (3 Credit Hours)
Design thinking is a human-centered approach to innovation that uses design methods and tools to integrate the needs of people and organizations, the opportunities of technology, and the requirements for personal, organizational, and business success. The design thinking course introduces students to a robust process for understanding problems, ideation, innovation, and entrepreneurship. This course is facilitated using workshops where students will work in project teams in a design thinking innovation challenge.
Prerequisites: ENTR 201S
ENTR 490 Entrepreneurship Capstone (3 Credit Hours)
The Entrepreneurship Capstone emphasizes practicing entrepreneurship through experiential learning, focusing on start-up activities. Drawing on a broad range of business disciplines, including Marketing, Management, Finance, and Accounting, students identify an opportunity and develop an industry analysis, marketing and finance plans, and a business pitch they present to investors and serial entrepreneurs.
Prerequisites: ENTR 301 , MKTG 311 , and Senior Standing
ENTR 494 Entrepreneurship Project in Management (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to help students enhance their personal and professional development through innovation guided by faculty members and professionals. It offers students an opportunity to integrate disciplinary theory and knowledge through developing a nonprofit program, product, business, or other initiative. The real-world experiences that entrepreneurships provide will help students understand how academic knowledge leads to transformations, innovations, and solutions to different types of problems. The course can be delivered either as an independent project for individual students or as group projects similar to those sometimes offered in topics courses.
Prerequisites: ENTR 201S or MGMT 426
ENTR 498 Tutorial Work in Special Topics in Entrepreneurship (3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor. The study should lead to presentation of a paper at a conference or publication as appropriate.
Prerequisites: ENTR 201S and approval of the program coordinator
ENTR 576 Social Entrepreneurship (3 Credit Hours)
The class draws students from all disciplines to collaborate with each other, faculty and community members as they co-design project-based solutions to pertinent social issues. Topics related to social entrepreneurship vary each year. Guided by distinguished faculty, students analyze their topic through in-depth classroom and field research, readings and off-campus trips.
ENTR 577 Design Thinking (3 Credit Hours)
Design thinking is a human-centered approach to innovation that uses design methods and tools to integrate the needs of people and organizations, the opportunities of technology, and the requirements for personal, organizational, and business success. The design thinking course introduces students to a robust process for understanding problems, ideation, innovation, and entrepreneurship. This course is facilitated using workshops where students will work in project teams in a design thinking innovation challenge.
Search catalog
