Graduate Courses
THEA 152R Acting One (3 Credit Hours)
An introduction to the physical and vocal principles of performance coupled with an opportunity to increase awareness of the constructed nature of social interactions. Students will explore confident self-expression through the physical, vocal, emotional and technical aspects of acting, as an art form and a daily experience, in a format that encourages freedom of imagination and personal growth. Emphasis is on the fundamental communication skills of presence, body language, imagination, and social communication.
THEA 173+ Theatre Activities (1 Credit Hour)
This course is an activity course in which the students participate in University Theatre Activities such as set building, costume construction or running crew for season productions.
THEA 174+ Theatre Activities (1 Credit Hour)
This is an activity course in which the students participate in University Theatre Activities such as set building, costume construction or running crew for season productions.
THEA 195 Topics in Theatre (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics designed for nonmajors, or for elective credit within a major.  These courses will appear in the course schedule, and will be more fully described in a booklet distributed to academic advisors.
THEA 196 Topics in Theatre (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics designed for nonmajors, or for elective credit within a major.  These courses will appear in the course schedule, and will be more fully described in a booklet distributed to academic advisors.
THEA 225 Introduction to Production Technology (3 Credit Hours)
Fundamentals of construction, lighting, and production techniques in contemporary theatre and film.  Students will apply acquired skills to active productions for ODU Theatre and Film productions.
THEA 227A Honors: Film Appreciation (3 Credit Hours)
This class will focus on both contextual and close text analysis of masterworks as they have influenced film art and industry.  Students in this course are expected to develop basic research, communication, viewing and critical thinking skills as they apply their knowledge to the analysis of the film experience.  Open to students in the Honors Program only.
THEA 230 Drama for Production (3 Credit Hours)
A practitioner-oriented examination of drama from its origins to the present.  Particular emphasis is placed on plays from around the world that are associated with changes in theatre practice.
THEA 241A The Theatre Experience (3 Credit Hours)
An introductory audience-oriented examination of the elements of theatre and their historical development through study of plays and performances; emphasis will be directed to actually experiencing live theatre.  Attendance at performances is required.
THEA 243H Theatre Histories (3 Credit Hours)
This course offers students a critical approach to interpreting theatre practices in history. As a fast-paced survey, it affords students a grounding in the histories of global theatre. Focusing on major political, cultural, economic, and social shifts, the course explores how those changes affected the development of theatre, drama, and performance.
THEA 244 Introduction to Production Design (3 Credit Hours)
An introduction to principles, methods, and materials used in designing stage and film productions.
THEA 248 Introduction to Stage Makeup (3 Credit Hours)
Develops skills and techniques for design and application of stage makeup.
THEA 252 Acting Two (3 Credit Hours)
Basic introduction to principles of acting which may be applied to stage and media and application of various techniques through exercises, improvisations, and performances of short scenes.
Prerequisites: THEA 152R
THEA 270A Film Appreciation (3 Credit Hours)
This class will focus on both contextual and close text analysis of masterworks as they have influenced film art and industry.  Students in this course are expected to develop basic research, communication, viewing and critical thinking skills as they apply their knowledge to the analysis of the film experience.
THEA 271 Introduction to Filmmaking (3 Credit Hours)
This course will introduce the beginning student to making movies. Students will learn the basics of working with cameras, lights, sound recording, video editing and post production. This is a hands-on production course. Cross-listed with COMM 271 / DANC 271 .
THEA 280T Entertainment Technologies (3 Credit Hours)
This course is an introduction to the entertainment industry including working methods, processes, and equipment for live, recorded, and interactive entertainment. The exploration will include theatre, opera, dance, concert productions, theme parks, themed-retail, film production, immersive, interactive and virtual environments, and gaming technology. Attention is given to the positive and negative aspects of entertainment technologies and how they impact culture and society.
THEA 295 Topics in Theatre (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics designed for nonmajors, or for elective credit within a major.  These courses will appear in the course schedule, and will be more fully described in a booklet distributed to all academic advisors.
THEA 320 Auditioning Technique (3 Credit Hours)
Course will examine practical audition skills and provide an orientation to the tools of procuring professional auditions, including head shots and resumes.  Emphasis will be placed on effectively selecting and preparing auditions for stage, film and television.
Prerequisites: THEA 152R and THEA 252
THEA 321 Production Management for Television and Stage (3 Credit Hours)
This course will assist students in understanding the elements of production management both in television and on stage.  The course emphasizes organizational and communication skills; technical production knowledge; professional rehearsal and performance protocol according to the rules of AEA, AFTRA and SAG as well as basic production budgeting and scheduling.
Prerequisites: THEA 225 or COMM 225 or permission of the instructor
THEA 325 Sound Design for Stage and Camera (3 Credit Hours)
This class will introduce the concepts and techniques of sound design and sound effects for the stage and camera.  Students will learn design of sound elements in both a live and recorded environment as well as learn the current equipment and software in digital sound reproduction.
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of instructor
THEA 330 The Short Script (3 Credit Hours)
This course builds upon the principles taught in Screenwriting 1 (or equivalent) using the short script as a basis for the exploration.  Utilizing concepts of characterization, plot, dialogue and narrative style, students should complete the course with several production-ready short scripts.
Prerequisites: COMM 346 or THEA 346
THEA 332 Making African-American Cinema (3 Credit Hours)
This introductory course on African-American cinema will focus on a variety of contemporary films, media clips, and video presentations concerning issues and topics that reflect the diversity within the African-American community of young adults between the ages of 18 to 25. The main goal of the class is to review historical films produced for African-Americans and utilize that data to conduct research and develop projects that represent the cultural diaspora of this audience, which is often not reflected in mainstream media, in Hollywood or major independent media outlets such as HBO or Showtime. Cross-listed with COMM 332.
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
THEA 334 Narrative Adaptation (3 Credit Hours)
This screenwriting course explores the ways teleplays, stage plays, and screenplays can be crafted using a variety of primary source materials. Through multiple screenings, writing exercises, and deep reading, it examines what constitutes an adaptable piece of prose and how that material can be transformed. Primary weight is given to the movement from novel to film.
Prerequisites: COMM 346 or THEA 346
THEA 341 Lighting Design for Stage and Film (3 Credit Hours)
A production course introducing students to the world of light and shadow, mood and composition by surveying lighting design, its technologies for stage and camera, and such principles as basic electrical theory and stage/studio/location design aesthetics.
Prerequisites: THEA 225 / COMM 225 or THEA 271 / COMM 271 or permission of instructor
THEA 342 Post-Production 1 (3 Credit Hours)
This course serves as an introduction to the art of video post-production. Students explore the theory and practice of various editing styles in order to gain a better understanding of how stories are constructed in the editing room. The course covers principles of post-production of narrative, documentary, and experimental films. Through demonstrations and hands-on experience, students learn editing techniques with an in-depth examination of tools and approaches in a non-linear editing system.
Prerequisites: COMM 271 or THEA 271 or DANC 271
THEA 345 Advanced Production Design (3 Credit Hours)
This course will explore advanced principles of design for the stage in the areas of scenery.  The process will include the application of various artistic styles to stage production.
Prerequisites: THEA 225 or COMM 225 or THEA 244
THEA 346 Screenwriting I (3 Credit Hours)
This course is an introduction to narrative screenwriting focusing on the traditional feature film. Students will study screenwriting principles through text reading, film viewing, script analysis and substantial writing assignments. Focus is on story structure, character development, action, dialogue, and proper screenplay format.
Prerequisites: ENGL 110C with a grade of C or better and ENGL 211C with a grade of C or better
THEA 347 Movement for the Actor (3 Credit Hours)
An examination through exercises and assignments of principles for developing a disciplined, flexible body for character creation.
Prerequisites: THEA 152R or permission of the instructor
THEA 348 Acting for the Camera (3 Credit Hours)
Course will examine the process of building characters for the camera, and the ways in which the conventions of the stage are adapted for the film or video audience.
Prerequisites: THEA 152R
THEA 349 Costume Design for Stage and Camera (3 Credit Hours)
This course explores the design aesthetic, historical context, and contemporary impact on performance of the costume garment and its accessories.  Students will explore the application of design principles in a practical experience.
Prerequisites: THEA 225 or COMM 225
THEA 352 Acting Three (3 Credit Hours)
Study of and experimentation with various theories concerning the preparation of roles and special performance characteristics of different styles and types of drama.  Considerable attention is directed toward scene study.
Prerequisites: THEA 152R and THEA 252
THEA 353 Animation (3 Credit Hours)
This is a project oriented, studio class that will focus on the art of animated storytelling from the traditional perspective of stop motion animation combined with digital post production. Students will engage in individual research, writing, storyboarding, editing, and sound creation to produce original short animations. Crosslisted with COMM 353 .
Prerequisites: COMM 271 or DANC 271 or THEA 271
THEA 355 Costume Crafts (3 Credit Hours)
This course will develop design principles and craft techniques to create a wide variety of costume crafts.  The course will focus on individual research, design elements and technical challenges.  Projects will encourage students to explore textile modification, various applications for clothing design, costume crafts and art materials.  Cross-listed with COMM 359 .
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of instructor
THEA 356 3D Animation 1 (3 Credit Hours)
This is a project-oriented studio class that will focus on the art of animated storytelling through the use of computer-based 3D animation.
Prerequisites: COMM 271 or THEA 271 or DANC 271
THEA 357 3D Animation 2 (3 Credit Hours)
This is a project-oriented studio class that will focus on the art of animated storytelling from the perspective of computer-based 3D animation, building on the skills developed in 3D Animation 1. Students will engage in individual research, writing, storyboarding, editing, and sound creation to produce original short animations.
Prerequisites: COMM 356 or THEA 356
THEA 358 Color for Digital Cinema & TV (3 Credit Hours)
This course will introduce students to color workflow in the digital cinema environment. The focus will be on working with color beginning with the camera, through color correction to delivery, mixing software-specific techniques with a deepening understanding of the underlying theories of color theory and practice. Students will learn and apply industry standard best practices in the field of visual post-production. This is a hands-on workshop style post-production course.
Prerequisites: COMM 271 or DANC 271 or THEA 271
THEA 360 Voice for the Stage I (3 Credit Hours)
This course will explore facets of vocal production, speech and expression necessary for an engaging performance on stage.  Through exercises and text work, the student will learn healthy vocal production, elements of clear speech and techniques for improving vocal range and expressiveness.
THEA 365 Internship in Film (3-6 Credit Hours)
Practicum/field experience in professional settings for students in all areas of Film. Pass/Fail only.
Prerequisites: Approval of the Director of Film and major advisor
THEA 367 Cooperative Education (1-3 Credit Hours)
Available for pass/fail grading only.  Student participation for credit based on the academic relevance of the work experience, criteria and evaluative procedures as formally determined by the department and the Cooperative Education program prior to the semester in which the work experience takes place.
Prerequisites: Approval of the department and the Career Development Services, in accordance with the policy for granting credit for Cooperative Education programs
THEA 368 Internship (3 Credit Hours)
A structured work experience with or without remuneration, in an appropriately related disciplinary field. An ePortfolio, 150 hours of site work, plus satisfactory evaluations by supervisor and cooperating faculty member are required. Available for pass/fail grading only. Available To Communication, Theatre, and Dance majors and minors only. Cross-listed with COMM 368 and DANC 368 .
Prerequisites: Approval of departmental internship director prior to registration
THEA 369 Internship at the Virginia Stage Company (3 Credit Hours)
A structured work experience with or without remuneration; a paper, a log and portfolio of work time plus satisfactory evaluations by supervisor and cooperating faculty member are required.  Pass/Fail only.
Prerequisites: Approval of Director of Theatre and VSC representative
THEA 371 History of Animation (3 Credit Hours)
This course traces the evolution of the animated film worldwide, from the silent to the modern era.  The purpose of the course is to provide students with a broad chronological and international overview of animated film masterworks.
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
THEA 373 Production/Performance Lab (1 Credit Hour)
This course provides students opportunities to participate in productions in Theatre, Dance or Film. These positions provide hands-on experience in the discipline. Cross-listed with DANC 373 .
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
THEA 374 Production/Performance Lab (1 Credit Hour)
This course provides students opportunities to participate in productions in Theatre, Dance or Film. These positions provide hands-on experience in the discipline. Cross-listed with DANC 374 .
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
THEA 375 Television Production (3 Credit Hours)
This course explores the basic process of producing television from script to presentation.
Prerequisites: THEA 271 or COMM 271 or permission of the instructor
THEA 380 Documentary Production I (3 Credit Hours)
This course offers the student an opportunity to explore the world of documentary filmmaking. Students will perform research to develop evidence in support of a thesis, then utilize the camera to capture a narrative story based on the thesis.  Through this process, the student is better able to understand documentary filmmaking.  Students will develop and deliver short documentary films by the end of the semester.
Prerequisites: THEA 271 or COMM 271 or DANC 271 with grade of C or higher
THEA 383 Directing the Actor (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed as a practical guide for directors to elicit strong performances from the actors who tell their stories. The class will establish vocabulary and practice techniques that are equally applicable to work in film or theatre. Ideally, the course will encourage students to think beyond genre as they create work that is both dramatically and humanly compelling.
Prerequisites: THEA 271 or COMM 271 or DANC 271 or THEA 152R
THEA 385 Cinematography (3 Credit Hours)
Introduces students to cinematography.  The course explores camera technique, blocking actors, lighting, and cinematography fundamentals.  The concepts of the course are applied to fiction and nonfiction cinema.  This is a production class.
Prerequisites: THEA 271 or COMM 271 or DANC 271 with grade of C or higher
THEA 386 Post-Production 2 (3 Credit Hours)
This course builds on the fundamentals learned in Post-Production I, exploring advanced post-production techniques in picture editing, color correction and grading, sound editing and mixing, VFX editing, title and graphics editing, chroma key and compositing. The focus will be on mixing software-specific techniques with deepening understanding of the underlying theories of editing, color theory and principles of sound post-production. The students will learn and apply industry standard best practices in the field of audiovisual post-production. This is a hands-on workshop style post-production course.
Prerequisites: COMM 342 OR THEA 342
THEA 387 TV News Production (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide students with an introduction to the reporting, writing, and production aspects of a television news program. Students will learn how to create 15- and 30-minute news broadcasts by developing story ideas and news gathering. Students will also learn the intricacies of shooting and editing video along with the production process involved in recording a live news broadcast. Each student will spend time both in front of and behind the television studio cameras. The goal of this course is to produce weekly news programs worthy of broadcast on local television. Students will assume the roles of reporter, writer, producer, floor director, photojournalist, videographer, technician, and more.
Pre- or corequisite: COMM 382 or ENGL 382
THEA 388 Motion Picture Aesthetics (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to develop within students a heightened and multifaceted awareness and appreciation for aesthetics of a particular type - motion picture aesthetics. Aesthetic considerations impact us intellectually, emotionally, psychologically, and viscerally. Professionals most definitely employ a language to filmmaking. One must learn the language of motion picture production and aesthetic design in order to convey concepts to their audiences.
Prerequisites: COMM 270A or THEA 270A
THEA 389 Sound Recording and Mixing for Film (3 Credit Hours)
This course will explore the best concepts in recording, editing and mixing audio for film and post-production. Students will be using Pro Tools hands-on to sync and mix audio to picture. Topics will include location audio, sound design, ADR, mixing, and more.
Prerequisites: THEA 271 or COMM 271 or DANC 271
THEA 390 Improvisation (3 Credit Hours)
An exploration of creativity through structured exercises, games and problems. Students participate in experiential studies that explore improvisational approaches, devices and elements to gain skills in the art of improvisation. This course also includes group discussions of reading assignments and feedback sessions following the improvisations performed in class. Through readings, journal writings, and in-class exercises, students develop the skills to articulate what they see, feel and respond to as performers and observers. Cross-listed with DANC 390 .
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
THEA 395 Topics in Theatre (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics designed for nonmajors, or for elective credit within a major.  These courses will appear in the course schedule, and will be more fully described to all academic advisors.
Prerequisites: Junior standing and permission of the instructor
THEA 396 Topics in Theatre (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics designed for nonmajors, or for elective credit within a major.  These courses will appear in the course schedule, and will be more fully described in a booklet distributed to all academic advisors.
Prerequisites: junior standing and permission of the instructor
THEA 430 TV Screenwriting (3 Credit Hours)
This course concentrates on the development and delivery of industry standard one-hour long TV scripts and the associated script 'bible.' Students will study sample scripts from broadcast TV programs and develop their own spec scripts. Cross-listed with COMM 430 .
Prerequisites: COMM 346 or THEA 346
THEA 439 WHRO Production (3 Credit Hours)
This is an experiential style course in the art and business of documentary production in the hands-on, professional environment of WHRO, which operates Hampton Roads’ PBS affiliate TV station as well as two public radio stations. Students will be guided through the production of content for WHRO by an ODU faculty member and the WHRO staff. Cross-listed with COMM 439 .
Prerequisites: COMM 271 or THEA 271 or DANC 271
THEA 440 Documentary Filmmaking Study Abroad (3 Credit Hours)
This is an in-the-field study abroad course where students will, in small groups, produce a short documentary film about a local NGO (Non-Governmental Organization) creating positive change in the local community.
Prerequisites: THEA 271 or COMM 271 or DANC 271 with a grade of C or higher
THEA 442/542 Principles of Directing (3 Credit Hours)
An examination and practical application of principles of stage direction as influenced by play script, acting talent, set and lighting design, and the technical facilities of production organizations.
Prerequisites: THEA 152R and THEA 230 , and THEA 244 or permission of the instructor
THEA 446 Directing for the Camera (3 Credit Hours)
This course seeks to provide students with fundamental principles and practical techniques of directing the narrative fiction film: script development and analysis, production planning, shot composition and framing, and working with actors and crew.
Prerequisites: THEA 383 or COMM 383 with a grade of C or higher
THEA 449W/549 Script and Performance Analysis (3 Credit Hours)
Approaches script analysis from a directorial perspective through the written examination of action, character, language, music, and spectacle, as well as the play's production history and historical context, to discover how plays might be staged for the contemporary audience.  Plays in production will be examined from a critical perspective with attention to artistic interpretation in the areas of direction, design, and performance.  This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: THEA 152R , THEA 230 , THEA 244 , and a grade of C or better in ENGL 110C and ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C , or permission of the instructor
THEA 451 Costume Design for Opera and Musical Theatre (3 Credit Hours)
This course will provide opportunities for hands-on training for all stages of the design process. Students will learn sewing techniques, create hand-dyed fabric, construction techniques, period costume research, character analysis, wig construction, and assist with the design. Project designs will be used in a main stage production presented by the Communication & Theatre Arts and Music departments at Old Dominion University. Students will also have the opportunity to run a live performance and assist with garment care, make-up, hair design and costume props.
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of instructor
THEA 452/552 Acting Four (3 Credit Hours)
An advanced scene study class exploring issues of style and period pertinent to portraying characters on stage.
Prerequisites: THEA 152R , THEA 252 and THEA 352
THEA 453 Voice Over (3 Credit Hours)
This course is for students who are interested in the field of voice over for commercials, narration, industrials, animation, Internet, and gaming. Students will practice voicing copy using acting techniques, vocal techniques, building characters, and analyzing copy. Students will learn to select, edit and prepare copy for a future demo and learn to perform cold voice over auditions. This is a performance-oriented course that is a workout session each day. Crosslisted with COMM 453 .
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of instructor
THEA 460 Voice for the Stage II (3 Credit Hours)
Course will continue the study of vocal production, speech and expression necessary for on stage performance of both classical and modern text.  Techniques for producing effective dialects will be introduced as well as the application of dialect towards character development.
Prerequisites: THEA 152R
THEA 471W/571 International Film History (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of world cinema as a technology, a business, an institution, and an art form from its inception to the present.  Emphasis is on the narrative fiction film, its technological and aesthetic development, economic organization, and socio-cultural context.  Representative classic and contemporary works will be screened and analyzed.  This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: COMM 270A or THEA 270A , a grade of C or better in ENGL 110C and ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C , and junior standing or permission of the instructor
THEA 472 Acting Five (3 Credit Hours)
An examination and advanced study of techniques relevant to specialized theatre performance.  This course will allow advanced students the opportunity to explore a variety of work including experimental theatre, avant garde works, mediated performance and visual based theatre.
Prerequisites: THEA 152R and THEA 252 or permission of instructor
THEA 473 Production/Performance Lab (1 Credit Hour)
This course provides students opportunities to participate in productions in Theatre, Dance or Film. These experiences provide hands-on experience in the discipline. Cross-listed with DANC 473 .
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
THEA 474 Production/Performance Lab (1 Credit Hour)
This course provides students opportunities to participate in productions in Theatre, Dance or Film. These experiences provide hands-on experience in the discipline. Cross-listed with DANC 474 .
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
THEA 479W/579 American Film History (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of American motion pictures as an art form, a business and an institution from its inception to the present.  Primary attention is accorded to the narrative fiction film, its aesthetic and technological development, economic organization and social impact.  This course highlights the many connections between film history and American culture. This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in ENGL 110C and ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C ; THEA 270A or COMM 270A ; and junior standing or permission of the instructor
THEA 480/580 Documentary Production II (3 Credit Hours)
Students will continue the work performed in THEA 380 with more advanced proposals, research, and production work.
Prerequisites: THEA 380 or COMM 380
THEA 482 Screenwriting II (3 Credit Hours)
Students will explore storytelling for cinema through screenplay analysis, scene study, character development, narrative structure, and story development.  This upper-level, hands-on course applies a range of screenwriting principles to writing exercises, critique, and construction of the first half of a feature-length screenplay.
Prerequisites: COMM 346 or THEA 346 with a grade of C or better
THEA 483 Advanced Cinema Projects (3 Credit Hours)
This is an intensive capstone course in film production.  Students experience pre-production, production, and post-production phases while creating a product to be entered in regional and national competitions.
Prerequisites: COMM 383 or THEA 383
THEA 485 Film and Television Genres (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to examine the conventions and meanings of various film and television genres within their broader aesthetic, socio-historical, cultural, and political contexts.  Each time the class is offered it will focus in depth on a different genre, such as the gangster, the Western, the musical, the comedy, science fiction, among others. Class may be repeated for credit as long as the genres are different.
Prerequisites: COMM 270A or THEA 270A
THEA 486/586 Advanced Filmmaking (3 Credit Hours)
This course offers students an opportunity to collaborate on a faculty led project beyond the scope of typical classroom projects.  Students will execute an assigned duty for the duration of the semester.
Prerequisites: permission of the instructor
THEA 487 Advanced TV News Production (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide students with advanced instruction in reporting, writing, and production for a television news program. Students will take on important roles in 15- and 30-minute news broadcasts and refine their skills in shooting and editing video. The goal of this course is to produce weekly news programs worthy of broadcast on local television. Students will receive significant experience in front of the camera as news, sports, and entertainment anchors/reporters as well as leadership positions in the television studio during the live broadcasts.
Prerequisites: COMM 387 , THEA 387 or ENGL 387
THEA 489 Methods of Teaching Theatre (3 Credit Hours)
Focuses on conceptual foundations of theatre education including its history, and on methods and materials for classroom instruction and theatrical rehearsals and performances.
Prerequisites: Junior standing
THEA 490 Theatre Education Practicum (1 Credit Hour)
This course provides students with an opportunity to further develop their understanding of theatre instruction by personal observation and participation in the classroom setting.
Prerequisites: Junior standing and permission of the College of Education
THEA 492 Cinematography 2 (3 Credit Hours)
This course builds on the fundamentals learned in Cinematography 1, exploring advanced camera and lighting techniques primarily used in narrative cinema. Advanced cameras, grip, electric, and lighting equipment will be covered, exposing students to gear and practices beyond the scope of a standard student production. This is a production class.
Prerequisites: COMM 385 or THEA 385
THEA 493 Feature Film Production (6 Credit Hours)
This intensive course will bring students onto the set of a feature film production, working crew positions as the film is shot. Cross-listed with COMM 493 .
Prerequisites: COMM 271 / THEA 271 / DANC 271 and two of the following: COMM 380 / THEA 380 , COMM 383 / THEA 383 , COMM 385 / THEA 385 , COMM 386 / THEA 386 , COMM 389 / THEA 389 , COMM 483 / THEA 483 , COMM 486 / THEA 486 , COMM 492 / THEA 492 with a grade of C or better
THEA 495/595 Topics in Theatre (1-3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics designed to permit small groups of qualified students to work on subjects of mutual interest which, due to their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly.  These courses will appear in the course schedule.
Prerequisites: Appropriate survey course or permission of the instructor
THEA 496/596 Topics in Theatre (1-3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics designed to permit small groups of qualified students to work on subjects of mutual interest which, due to their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly.  These courses will appear in the course schedule.
Prerequisites: appropriate survey course or permission of the instructor
THEA 497/597 Tutorial Work in Special Topics in Theatre (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor.
Prerequisites: Senior standing
THEA 498/598 Tutorial Work in Special Topics in Theatre (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor.  Conferences and papers as appropriate.
Prerequisites: senior standing
THEA 499 Senior Project (1 Credit Hour)
Completion of a creative project leading to a written work and a presentation during a student's senior year related to student's interest area.  Topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor with conferences as appropriate.
Prerequisites: Senior standing as theatre major and approval of major advisor
THEA 542 Principles of Directing (3 Credit Hours)
An examination and practical application of principles of stage direction as influenced by play script, acting talent, set and lighting design, and the technical facilities of production organizations.
THEA 543 Acting Three (3 Credit Hours)
An advanced scene study class exploring issues of style and period pertinent to portraying characters on stage.
Prerequisites: THEA 152, THEA 252 or permission of instructor
THEA 545 Experimental Theatre (3 Credit Hours)
An in-depth study of avant-garde theatre scripts and performance techniques from 1900 to the present.
Prerequisites: THEA 230 or permission of instructor
THEA 549 Script and Performance Analysis (3 Credit Hours)
Approaches script and performance analysis by examining the separate elements of action, character, language, music, spectacle or "mise en scene" in order to discover play spine and style as a basis for staging the play.  Also examines the method of "scoring a role" or finding character motivations in relation to overall play spine.
THEA 552 Acting Four (3 Credit Hours)
An advanced scene study class exploring issues of style and period pertinent to portraying characters on stage.
THEA 571 International Film History (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of world cinema as a technology, a business, an institution, and an art form from its inception to the present.  Emphasis is on the narrative fiction film, its technological and aesthetic development, economic organization, and socio-cultural context.  Representative classic and contemporary works will be screened and analyzed.
THEA 579 American Film History (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of American motion pictures as an art form, a business and an institution from its inception to the present.  Primary attention is accorded to the narrative fiction film, its aesthetic and technological development, economic organization and social impact.  This course highlights the many connections between film history and American culture.
THEA 580 The Video Documentary II (3 Credit Hours)
A production/studio course designed to complement the work developed in Theatre 380: The Video Documentary I. Discussion/presentation topics range from production field work to post-production editing.  The final third of the semester will be devoted to compiling the rough footage in post production.
THEA 586 Advanced Filmmaking (3 Credit Hours)
This course offers students an opportunity to collaborate on a faculty led project beyond the scope of typical classroom projects. Students will execute an assigned duty for the duration of the semester.
THEA 595 Topics in Theatre (1-3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics designed to permit small groups of qualified students to work on subjects of mutual interest which, due to their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly.  These courses will appear in the course schedule and will be more fully described by academic advisors.
THEA 596 Topics in Theatre (1-3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics designed to permit small groups of qualified students to work on subjects of mutual interest which, due to their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly.  These courses will appear in the course schedule and will be more fully described by academic advisors.
THEA 597 Tutorial Work in Special Topics in Theatre (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor.  Conferences and papers as appropriate.
THEA 598 Tutorial Work in Special Topics in Theatre (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor.  Conferences and papers as appropriate.
THEA 697 Tutorial Work in Special Topics in Theatre (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor.  Conferences and papers as appropriate.
Prerequisites: graduate standing and approval of the department chair
THEA 698 Tutorial Work in Special Topics in Theatre (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor.  Conferences and papers as appropriate.
Prerequisites: graduate standing and approval of the department chair
Search catalog
