Nursing (NURS)
NURS 304 Principles of Practice: Foundations of Health Assessment (3 Credit Hours)
This didactic and laboratory course emphasizes the assessment phase of the nursing process.  Supervised practice, faculty demonstration, and self-paced learning in the audio-visual laboratory, simulation laboratory and selected clinical sites facilitate skill acquisition in health assessment and health history interviewing. Pre- or
Prerequisites: Admission to the BSN program
NURS 305 Health Assessment (3 Credit Hours)
This course emphasizes the physical assessment phase of the nursing process. For registered nurse students only.
Prerequisites: Admission to the BSN program
NURS 306 Theoretical Foundation of Professional Nursing Practice (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on selected nursing models, concepts, and theories as supporting frameworks for professional nursing practice.  Emphasis is placed on the utilization of nursing theory as a methodology for improving nursing practice in various client situations and practice settings.  For registered nurse students only.
Prerequisites: Admission to the BSN program
Pre- or corequisite: NURS 401
NURS 310 Principles of Practice: Introduction to Nutrition/Normal Nutrition (1 Credit Hour)
This course focuses on concepts of normal nutrition. Emphasis is placed on understanding the impact of various nutrients on the body.
Prerequisites: Admission to the BSN program
NURS 311 Principles of Practice: Nutrition of Nursing Practice (1 Credit Hour)
This course builds upon NURS 310 and introduces the student to selected therapeutic diets. Emphasis is placed on specific diets associated with selected alterations in adaptation and the adult with behavioral issues.
Prerequisites: NURS 310
NURS 314 Principles of Practice: Foundational Concepts (3 Credit Hours)
Emphasis is on concepts and theories that are fundamental to professional nursing practice, the nursing process, and therapeutic nurse-patient communication.
Prerequisites: Admission to the BSN program
NURS 316 Principles of Practice: Foundations of Practice (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on concepts and theories underlying professional clinical nursing practice. This course also includes laboratory application of health assessment skills, the nursing process, and clinical nursing techniques.
Prerequisites: Admission to the BSN program
Pre- or corequisite: NURS 304
NURS 317 Principles of Practice: Clinical Foundations of Practice (1 Credit Hour)
This clinical course focuses on the assessment and basic care of the hospitalized adult client. Application of the nursing process, health assessment, and clinical nursing techniques are implemented using concepts and theories that underlie professional nursing practice.
Prerequisites: admission to the BSN program
Pre- or corequisite: NURS 304 and NURS 316
NURS 322 Health Continuum: Adult Health I (4 Credit Hours)
This lecture course focuses on the adult who is experiencing selected alterations and/or adaptations in organ system function such as elimination, immune system/cellular regulation, hematological system, fluid balance, temperature regulation and nutritional balances. Focus is also on the adult experiencing pain, inflammation and other selected system alterations. Emphasis is on the use of the nursing process to assist adult patients to adapt to alterations/adaptations in function of systems.
Pre- or corequisite: NURS 323 and NURS 373
NURS 323 Health Continuum: Clinical Management Adult Health I (2 Credit Hours)
This clinical course focuses on the nursing process with adult clients experiencing alterations/adaptations in bodily defense mechanisms. The concepts inclusive in the didactic component will be actualized in general medical surgical units and oncology units.
Pre- or corequisite: NURS 322 and NURS 373
NURS 332 Health Continuum: The Growing Family (2 Credit Hours)
This lecture course focuses on the theoretical and applied concepts related to the care of families experiencing pregnancy and childbirth. Emphasis is on the dynamic familial, societal, psychological and physiological changes that occur in this stage of family and personal development. The assistive role of the nurse and as a family-centered provider of care is a major focus.
Pre- or corequisite: NURS 333
NURS 333 Health Continuum: Clinical Management of the Growing Family (1 Credit Hour)
This clinical course provides the opportunity for planning and provision of nursing care to the childbearing family. Emphasis is on the use of the nursing process to plan, provide and coordinate quality care. Students are expected to demonstrate responsibility and accountability for personal actions as well as a respect for families and clients.
Pre- or corequisite: NURS 332
NURS 352 Health Continuum: Behavioral Issues, Altered Cognition and Coping (2 Credit Hours)
This lecture course focuses on psychotherapeutic processes across the lifespan. Building on foundations from the social and behavioral sciences, emphasis is on the use of the nursing process in providing care to clients with acute and chronic illness in a variety of psychiatric settings.
Pre- or corequisite: NURS 353
NURS 353 Clinical Management of Patients with Behavioral Issues, Altered Cognition and Coping (1 Credit Hour)
This clinical course provides a mechanism for students to perform mental health assessments, plan nursing care, practice therapeutic communication techniques and observe group processes in both inpatient and outpatient settings.
Pre- or corequisite: NURS 352
NURS 355 Genetics in Nursing (2 Credit Hours)
Emphasis is placed on current information and research findings about the role of genetics in health. Students completing this course will be better prepared to incorporate genetic information and technology when providing care to clients.  A student receiving credit for NURS 355 cannot receive credit for NURS 455 .
Prerequisites: Admission to the prelicensure BSN program
NURS 356 Global Health Perspectives (2 Credit Hours)
This introductory course to global health emphasizes the major underlying determinants of poor health and the relationship between health and political, social, and economic development. Students will be introduced to global effects on the health of populations worldwide, current and future challenges to global health and the role of primary health care providers in meeting that challenge. (A student receiving credit for NURS 356 cannot receive credit for NURS 456 .)
Prerequisites: admission to the prelicensure BSN program
NURS 357 Palliative Care in Nursing (2 Credit Hours)
This course provides an overview of the need to improve end of life care and the role of nursing as a member of the interdisciplinary team in providing quality care. Basic principals of palliative care are presented within a quality of life (QOL) framework. Palliative care nursing care combines caring, communication, knowledge, and skill. Clinical issues to include expert assessment skills and aggressive pain and symptom management as well as the psychological, social, and spiritual care of patients and families experiencing a life threatening progressive illness will be discussed. Caring for the dying means not only "doing for" but also "being with". Students will be provided the opportunity to use introspection to clarify their own feelings related to the dying process. A student receiving credit for NURS 357 cannot receive credit for NURS 457 .
Prerequisites: Admission to the prelicensure BSN program
NURS 358 Studies in Professional Nursing (2 Credit Hours)
The study of selected topics in professional nursing practice; designed to provide an in-depth exploration of current nursing issues.
Prerequisites: Admission to BSN program
NURS 363 Principles of Practice: Research as Foundation for Practice (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on the theories and concepts utilized in the scientific investigation of nursing practice. Content emphasizes the development of skills necessary to be a consumer of nursing research.
Prerequisites: Admission to BSN program
Pre- or corequisite: STAT 130M
NURS 369 Practicum: Studies in Clinical Nursing Practice (1-3 Credit Hours)
The study of selected clinical practice applications in professional nursing practice; designed to provide an in-depth practicum in selected nursing practice areas.  Students must have specific practicum arrangements (ex: externship) prior to registration.
Prerequisites: admission to BSN program and permission of undergraduate program director or chief departmental advisor
NURS 373 Principles of Practice: Pharmacology for Nursing Practice I (2 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to involve the student in the application of the nursing process to clinical situations involving drug therapy.
Pre- or corequisite: NURS 322 and NURS 323
NURS 376 Principles of Practice: Pharmacology Across the Continuum (1 Credit Hour)
This course is designed to involve nursing students in the practical application of the nursing process in clinical pharmaco-therapeutics related to selected concepts.
Prerequisites: NURS 373
NURS 380 Clinical Nursing Concepts 1 (9 Credit Hours)
This is an advanced placement course for nursing students concurrently enrolled in level 1 nursing coursework with an approved partner nursing program. After successful completion of the didactic coursework and clinical requirements at the partner institution, the student will be awarded experiential learning credits.
NURS 381 Clinical Nursing Concepts 2 (9 Credit Hours)
This is an advanced placement course for nursing students concurrently enrolled in level 2 nursing coursework with an approved partner nursing program. After successful completion of the didactic coursework and clinical requirements at the partner institution, the student will be awarded experiential learning credits.
NURS 382 Clinical Nursing Concepts 3 (9 Credit Hours)
This is an advanced placement course for nursing students concurrently enrolled in level 3 nursing coursework with an approved partner nursing program. After successful completion of the didactic coursework and clinical requirements at the partner institution, the student will be awarded experiential learning credits.
NURS 383 Clinical Nursing Concepts 4 (9 Credit Hours)
This is an advanced placement course for nursing students concurrently enrolled in level 4 nursing coursework with an approved partner nursing program. After successful completion of the didactic coursework and clinical requirements at the partner institution, the student will be awarded experiential learning credits. Proof of licensure as a registered nurse is required prior to awarding the level 4 experiential learning credits.
NURS 387 Principles of Practice: Research as Foundation for Practice (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on the theories and concepts utilized in the scientific investigation of nursing practice. Content emphasizes the development of skills necessary to be a consumer of nursing research.  Open to Honors Program students only.
Prerequisites: Admission to the BSN program
Pre- or corequisite: STAT 130M
NURS 393 Clinical Skills for Nonnursing Majors (2 Credit Hours)
Focuses on basic hygiene, comfort and safety skills required of health professionals providing diagnostic and/or supportive therapies to clients in a health care facility.  May not be taken as required elective by nursing majors.  Open to nuclear medicine technology students only.
Prerequisites: junior standing and permission of the instructor
NURS 395 Topics (1-3 Credit Hours)
Selected health-related topics of interest.  Course descriptions and prerequisites are available from the chief academic advisor.
Prerequisites: permission of the School of Nursing
NURS 396 Independent Study (1-3 Credit Hours)
Nursing majors only. Selected health-related topics of interest to nursing majors. Course descriptions and prerequisites are available from the chief academic advisor.
Prerequisites: Permission of the School of Nursing
NURS 397 Independent Study (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent study of selected topics.
Prerequisites: permission of the School of Nursing
NURS 398 Clinical Nursing Concepts I (17 Credit Hours)
This advanced placement credit is awarded to the registered nurse who has demonstrated knowledge of selected basic clinical nursing concepts for the provision of nursing care to individuals experiencing health deviations.  Awarded upon completion of 14 credits in major. Registered nurse students only.
NURS 401 Introduction to Professional Development for Baccalaureate Nursing Practice (4 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on basic skills required for success in the post-licensure baccalaureate nursing program.  Emphasis is placed on professional development for baccalaureate nursing practice.  Selected skills to be acquired include introduction to the development of a professional portfolio, APA professional writing format, information literacy in nursing literature and professional communication strategies.  For registered nurse students only.
Prerequisites: Admission to the BSN program
NURS 402 Role Development for the Baccalaureate Nurse as Educator (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on further development of the baccalaureate nursing student with an emphasis on expanding critical thinking skills, teaching-learning theories and application, professional resume development and exploration of nursing specialties and practice roles.  For registered nursing students only.
Prerequisites: NURS 401
NURS 403 Transition to Baccalaureate Nursing Practice (4 Credit Hours)
This course facilitates the completion of a professional portfolio for the post-licensure baccalaureate nursing student. Emphasis is on advanced professional communication strategies and reflective processes for professional role expansion and development. For registered nurse students only. NURS 403 may only be taken in the final semester of the nursing curriculum.
Pre- or corequisite: NURS 305 , NURS 306 , NURS 363 , NURS 401 , NURS 412 , NURS 417 , NURS 490W , and NURS 492
NURS 410 Health Continuum: Adult Health II (4 Credit Hours)
This lecture course focuses on the adult experiencing multisystem alterations/adaptations. Emphasis is on the use of the nursing process to assist adult clients to adapt to multisystem alterations/adaptations related insults.
Pre- or corequisite: NURS 453 and NURS 474
NURS 412 Ethics, Law, Economics & Health Policy: Application to Quality Nursing Practice (2 Credit Hours)
This course examines ethics, law, economics and health policy that influence nursing practice, the health care system, and quality patient care.
Prerequisites: Admission to the BSN program
NURS 417 Nursing Informatics (2 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on information management and the utilization of patient care technologies to improve the patient experience of care (quality, satisfaction, safety), improve the health of populations, and reduce cost. Students will develop knowledge, skills and attitudes related to nursing informatics through readings, online discussions, case studies and exploration and use of electronic modalities.
Prerequisites: Admission to the BSN program
NURS 421 Health Continuum: Clinical Management of Children of the Family (2 Credit Hours)
This clinical course emphasizes the provision of nursing care to infants and children suffering from acute and chronic illnesses. Through the use of the nursing process, students provide and coordinate care, serving as client advocates. Students are expected to demonstrate responsibility for personal actions related to the practice of nursing.
Pre- or corequisite: NURS 422
NURS 422 Heath Continuum: Children of the Family (2 Credit Hours)
This lecture course provides a basis for understanding the nursing care of children of various ages. Emphasis is on the use of the nursing process to assist children as they encounter acute and chronic illnesses. The nurse's communication with and education of the family and child as individuals or as part of a group are discussed as a means of achieving the goal of comprehensive individualized child care in the home and health care settings.
Pre- or corequisite: NURS 421
NURS 430/530 Principles of Practice: Contemporary Issues in Nursing Care of the Older Adult (2 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on the nursing needs of the well gerontological client. Emphasis is on the multi-complex needs of the older adult.
Prerequisites: Admission to the BSN program
NURS 440 Health Continuum Recovery (2 Credit Hours)
This course introduces the theoretical and applied concepts necessary to assist individuals with potential or actual disabilities prevent further functional dependence or restore maximum levels of function.
Pre- or corequisite: NURS 441
NURS 441 Heath Continuum: Clinical Management of Recovery (2 Credit Hours)
This clinical course focuses on using the nursing process to assist the recovery of individuals with disabilities prevent further functional dependence or restore maximum levels of function. Collaborative team approaches are stressed.
Pre- or corequisite: NURS 440
NURS 453 Health Continuum: Clinical Management Adult Health Nursing II (2 Credit Hours)
This clinical course emphasizes the provision of nursing care to clients who are experiencing alterations/adaptations in organ system functions. Through the use of the nursing process, students will provide and coordinate care and serve as client advocates in a variety of settings.
Pre- or corequisite: NURS 410 and NURS 474
NURS 454 Critical Care Nursing (2 Credit Hours)
This elective clinical and didactic course is designed for final semester pre-licensure students who are requesting adult critical care (CC) or emergency department (ED) Role Transition preceptorship placement.
Prerequisites: NURS 410 and NURS 453 and permission of the instructor
NURS 455 Genetics in Nursing (3 Credit Hours)
Emphasis is placed on current information & research findings about the role of genetics in health. Students completing this course will be better prepared to incorporate genetic information and technology when providing care to clients. A student receiving credit for NURS 355 cannot receive credit for NURS 455 .
Prerequisites: Admission to the postlicensure BSN program
NURS 456 Global Health Perspectives (3 Credit Hours)
This introductory course to global health emphasizes the major underlying determinants of poor health and the relationship between health and political, social, and economic development. Students will be introduced to. global effects on the health of populations worldwide, current and future challenges to global health and the role of primary health care providers in meeting that challenge. (A student receiving credit for NURS 456 cannot receive credit for NURS 356 .)
Prerequisites: permission of the instructor
NURS 457 Palliative Care (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides an overview of the need to improve end of life care and the role of nursing as a member of the interdisciplinary team in providing quality care. Basic principles of palliative care are presented within a quality of life (QOL) framework. Palliative care nursing care combines caring, communication, knowledge, and skill. Clinical issues to include expert assessment skills and aggressive pain and symptom management as well as the psychological, social, and spiritual care of patients and families experiencing a life threatening progressive illness will be discussed. Caring for the dying means not only "doing for" but also "being with". Students will be provided the opportunity to use introspection to clarify their own feelings related to the dying process. A student receiving credit for NURS 357 cannot receive credit for NURS 457 .
Prerequisites: Admission to the postlicensure BSN program
NURS 458 Studies in Professional Nursing (3 Credit Hours)
The study of selected topics in professional nursing practice; designed to provide an in-depth exploration of current nursing issues.
Prerequisites: admission to B.S.N. program or permission of instructor
NURS 459 Concepts in Primary Care (3 Credit Hours)
In this course, students learn to improve the health of individuals, families, and communities in primary care settings.  Emphasis is on health education, health promotion and disease prevention, and management of chronic illnesses, especially for underserved populations and veterans.
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
NURS 462 Nursing in the Health Care System Community I (1 Credit Hour)
This course focuses on family and community health nursing. Content emphasizes concepts and themes of families and communities and the use of the nursing process to assist in promoting and maintaining health. Application of course concepts through experience and interactions with health care coalition groups is emphasized.
Pre- or corequisite: NURS 463
NURS 463 Nursing in the Health Care System: Community Interactions I (1 Credit Hour)
This clinical course provides opportunity for application of concepts and themes of families and communities through experience and interactions with health care coalition groups.
Pre- or corequisite: NURS 462
NURS 472 Nursing in the Health Care System: Community II (1 Credit Hour)
This course focuses on the continued development of concepts related to family and community health nursing. Content emphasizes development of strategies to facilitate application of concepts and themes of families and communities. The nursing process is used to assist in promoting and maintaining health.
Pre- or corequisite: NURS 473
NURS 473 Nursing in the Health Care System: Community Interactions II (1 Credit Hour)
Application of course concepts through experience and interactions with healthcare coalition groups are emphasized.
Pre- or corequisite: NURS 472
NURS 474 Principles of Practice: Pharmacology for Nursing Practice II (2 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to involve nursing students in the practical application of the nursing process in clinical pharmacotherapeutics related to selected concepts.
Pre- or corequisite: NURS 410 and NURS 453
NURS 480W Nursing in the Health Care System: Leadership (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on utilization of strategies from leadership, management systems and change theories to facilitate professional nursing practice. Emphasis is placed on the professional nurse as a leader in the health care system. The influence of organizational behavior, professional image and case management on nursing practice is examined. This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: Completion of ENGL 110C and ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C with a grade of C or better
NURS 481 Principles of Practice: Role Transition (5 Credit Hours)
This capstone course is a practicum experience in which students apply theoretical, conceptual and psychomotor learning in a structured clinical environment under the supervision of a staff preceptor. The experience is designed to assist the student to facilitate the transition to the role of the baccalaureate generalist nurse.
Pre- or corequisite: Senior standing in the curriculum
NURS 490W Nursing Leadership (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on utilization of strategies from leadership, management, systems and change theories to facilitate professional nursing practice.  Emphasis is placed on the professional nurse as a leader in the health care system.  The influence of organizational behavior, proactive political action, professional image and case management on nursing practice is examined.  For registered nurse students only.   This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: Admission to the BSN program and completion of ENGL 110C and ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C with a grade of C or better
Pre- or corequisite: NURS 401
NURS 491 Principles of Practice: Role Transition (5 Credit Hours)
This capstone course is a practicum experience in which students apply theoretical, conceptual and psychomotor learning in a structured clinical environment under the supervision of a staff preceptor. The experience is designed to assist the student to facilitate the transition to the role of the baccalaureate generalist nurse.
Pre- or corequisite: Senior standing in the program
NURS 492 Community Health Nursing (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on professional nursing practice with families and communities as clients.  Emphasis is on community wellness, interaction with political influences and epidemiological principles.  For registered nurse students only.
Prerequisites: Admission to the BSN program
Pre- or corequisite: NURS 401
NURS 495/595 Topics in Nursing (1-3 Credit Hours)
The study of selected topics that may not be offered regularly.  Special topics will appear in the schedule of classes each semester.
Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor
NURS 498 Clinical Nursing Concepts II (16 Credit Hours)
This advanced placement credit is awarded to the registered nurse who has demonstrated knowledge of selected complex nursing concepts for the provision of nursing care to individuals and families experiencing health deviations. Awarded upon completion of 26 credits in the major.  For registered nurse students only.
NURS 499 Clinical Nursing Concepts III (33 Credit Hours)
This is an advanced placement course for registered nurse students. After verification of registered nurse licensure, the student will be awarded 33 experiential learning credits.
Linked BSN to MSN
The linked BSN (Bachelor of Science in Nursing) to MSN (Master of Science in Nursing) is designed for well-qualified students seeking an efficient pathway to an MSN degree in Advanced Practice Nursing Roles. Up to 9 credits of graduate coursework may be counted toward both the undergraduate and master's degrees in nursing. This program allows for select post-licensure students, working closely with faculty advisors, to complete graduate coursework while they are still undergraduates.
Admission Requirements
Applicants will apply to the RN/BSN to MSN option by May 1st of each year and must meet all current requirements for admission to the Nursing Post-licensure Major (BSN) program as currently outlined in catalog.  Further, applicants must meet all current requirements for admission to the MSN as currently stated in the catalog with the exception of the requirement for completion of a Baccalaureate degree in nursing or related science field.
Admission Procedures
Students who meet the admission requirements should consult with the graduate program director to discuss their eligibility and to establish a proposed plan of study for graduate courses to be taken as an undergraduate. Students must first apply and be accepted to the Nursing Post-licensure Major (BSN) program. Once accepted, students will work directly with the Graduate Program Director to be considered for admission to the Linked BSN to MSN program. The application to the Linked BSN to MSN will include three letters of recommendation, with at least one from a former faculty member and at least one from a former employer while in the RN role and a 500-700 word essay that addresses the applicant's goals and reasons for seeking certification as an advanced practice nurse. Some MSN tracks may have additional requirements.
Requirements for the Linked BSN to MSN Program
Students accepted into this curriculum may use nine graduate credits to count toward both the BSN and MSN degrees as follows:
NURS 709 to meet BSN NURS 363 and MSN core
NURS 771 to meet BSN NURS 305 and MSN core
NURS 800 to meet required BSN NURS ELECTIVE and MSN core
To continue in the BSN to MSN curriculum, a student must earn a grade of B or above in each graduate-level course. A student who earns a grade of B- or C+ in a graduate course will not be able to continue in the MSN curriculum as an undergraduate student, but will be allowed to count that graduate course toward the BSN degree requirements. A student who earns a grade of C or below in a graduate course will not be allowed to continue in the MSN curriculum as an undergraduate student, and will be required to take the corresponding undergraduate course to complete the BSN degree requirements.
Students must earn a minimum of 120 credits for the undergraduate degree.  The 9 credits listed above of graduate level course work would count toward the 120 credits and toward the MSN degree. Further, students must complete all required credits for the MSN concentration sought as currently listed in the catalog for the concentration.
Search catalog
