Ellmer School of Nursing
Ellmer School of Nursing
Welcome to the Ellmer School of Nursing at Old Dominion University! The Ellmer School of Nursing was established in 1967 and has been preparing exceptional nurses for professional practice for over 56 years. We are proud of our consistently high pass rates on licensing and certification exams for our graduates. The school is accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE) and approved by the Virginia Board of Nursing. Our success can be credited to a faculty committed to delivering high-quality nursing education using innovative teaching methods, distance learning technologies for selected course delivery, and support from grant awards.
The ODU Ellmer School of Nursing offers a variety of programs and degrees at the bachelor's, master's, and doctoral levels. We welcome your questions.
Why choose the Ellmer School of Nursing at ODU?
98% of didactic courses taught by full-time faculty.
95% student satisfaction with the quality of instruction, faculty feedback and individualized faculty attention across all degree programs
1:6-8 faculty-to-student ratio for clinical practicum instruction/supervision.
575 direct-care clinical hours and 80 simulation hours in the pre-licensure BSN program /
American Association of Colleges of Nursing (AACN) award winning curriculums
Infusing Geriatrics into Baccalaureate Curriculum (2006)
Exemplary Academic-Practice Partnership Award w/Sentara Ambulatory Care Clinic and the Foodbank of Southeastern Virginia (2019)
Innovations in Professional Nursing Education Award: ODU Community Care (2024)
Ellmer School of Nursing
Welcome from the Interim Dean
We have been training nurses since 1967, making our mark in nursing education in Virginia and nationally. As a school of nursing accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE), we offer a full spectrum of nursing programs, beginning with the Bachelor of Science degree, advancing to the Master of Science degree (with five specializations), and extending to the Doctor of Nursing Practice degree (with four specializations).
Undergraduate Programs
The bachelor's program is designed for students from varied backgrounds and prepares highly competent nurses with strong theoretical foundations and excellent clinical practice skills, ready for entry-level professional careers in acute care, ambulatory care, rehabilitation, home, and community settings. Graduates are also prepared for progression to positions that require beginning administrative and research skills, and are prepared for graduate study.
Graduate Programs
All graduate nursing programs offered by the School of Nursing at Old Dominion University, with the exception of Nurse Anesthesia, are online distance learning offerings. We offer Master of Science in Nursing, Doctor of Nursing Practice, and certificate programs. Find the speciality to assist your pursuit of a meaningful career.
About
In 1975, the Department of Nursing sought and was granted accreditation for the Bachelor of Science in Nursing program by the National League for Nursing (NLN). Accreditation was expanded in 1982 to cover the new Master of Science with a concentration in nursing program as well as the baccalaureate program.
