Tuition, Fees, and Financial Information
Tuition
As used by the University, the term tuition refers to a comprehensive fee that includes payment of instructional programs, academic services, student services and activities, recreational sports, and intercollegiate athletics. All fees are subject to approval and/or change by the Board of Visitors.
Information related to the comprehensive tuition can be found on the website for the Office of Finance ( https://www.odu.edu/tuition/rates ).
Students who are eligible to enroll in a combination of undergraduate and graduate courses in any given semester must pay tuition for the courses at the appropriate levels as prescribed. Graduate hours are available at graduate tuition rates, and undergraduate rates apply for undergraduate hours.
Room and Board Charges—2024-25 Academic Year
See https://www.odu.edu/housing for room and board rates.
Eligibility for In-State Tuition for Certain Individuals Using G.I. Bill Benefits
G.I. Bill is a registered trademark of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. More information about education benefits offered by the VA is available at the official U.S. government  website at http://www.benefits.va.gov/gibill.
In-State Tuition Status (Residency)
Current information about eligibility for in-state tuition rates can be found at: https://odu.edu/tuition-aid/costs-tuition/tuition/in-state .
Billing Cycle/Tuition Deadlines
Through the act of registration, either by registering online or by registration form, students accept responsibility for charges incurred. All University charges are due and payable by the established deadlines. The total amount due must be received by 5:00 p.m. on the deadline date shown on the statement to avoid financial penalties. Students unable to pay the total due by the tuition deadline may opt for participation in the University payment plan (fall and spring only). If charges remain unpaid 30 days after the due date, a 5% late payment penalty is assessed. Once the account is 120 days past due, it is forwarded to a collection agency and assessed an additional 25%.  Tuition deadlines are published for each term: https://ww1.odu.edu/tuition-aid/tuition/billing .
Billing Statements
All itemized Student Account billing statements are only available online at www.LeoOnline.odu.edu . Billing activity, notifications, and alerts are sent to the student's ODU.EDU provided email address. For more information, please visit the website .
Failure to Pay Tuition
Students’ registrations will not be canceled for failure to pay tuition. Nonpayment will not release students from the financial obligation for tuition charges. Students are strongly encouraged to follow University procedures and meet published deadlines to officially drop classes and be released from charges. Stopping payment on a tuition draft does not constitute a cancellation of the student’s registration.
Payment/Student Accounts (Cashiers' Windows)
Students may pay for tuition and fees with personal checks, money orders, cash, or credit card (VISA, MasterCard, Discover, and American Express). The Office of Finance no longer accepts credit card payments at the cashiers' windows.  Cash payments should be made at the Office of Finance cashiers' windows ONLY. Check/money order payments may be mailed to Office of Finance, Student Accounts, Old Dominion University, Alfred B. Rollins, Jr. Hall, Norfolk, VA 23529-0045. Personal checks will be accepted for the exact amount of fees and/or other amounts owed the University. Students may make credit card payments via Leo Online only.  Students who pay using a credit card will be charged a convenience fee.  Third party payments are accepted upon submission of authorization documents. Payments on all financial obligations to the University will be applied on the basis of age of the debt. The oldest debt will be paid first. Postdated checks are not scrutinized and will be deposited upon receipt. The cashiers do not cash checks or make cash refunds. Checks must be provided in U.S. dollars. Over-payments on students' accounts of $5 or less that are not created by a financial aid disbursement will not be refunded unless students request the refund from the Student Accounts Office.
Cash Payments over $10,000
In accordance with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) requirements and the University Policy, any cash payment received by ODU exceeding $10,000 will require completion of a Cash Intake Form . For more information, visit the Departmental Deposits page.
Third-Party Payment Authorizations
A "Third Party" is an employer, a military unit, a service organization, embassies, or a federal, state or local governmental agency agreeing to pay tuition and fees on the student's behalf, and requests that ODU bill them for these debts. These payments require a written authorization for processing.
Student Account Inquiry
The University reserves the right to request information on the student identification number and/or a photo identification when releasing information or conducting other financial transactions. Specific account information will be released only to the student. Each student account can be viewed using any Internet browser. Students are strongly encouraged to access records directly through their secure access site on www.leoonline.odu.edu . Students are expected and required to assume responsibility for their own financial matters and to abide by the laws of the Commonwealth and the rules and regulations of the University. Failure to read and comply with University regulations will not exempt students from whatever penalties they may incur.
Delinquent Accounts
The University will not issue a degree, diploma, transcript of grades, grade report, or permit registration for future terms to any student who has not paid all debts in full. Students with account holds are permitted to drop classes to reduce debt or withdraw to prevent academic penalty.
Collections
Virginia State law requires that the University make every attempt to collect past due amounts owed to state agencies. If, after 120 days, full payment of a debt has not been received, the account will be placed with a collection agency. Account holders are responsible for any collection costs incurred at a rate of 25% of the total due. Several other actions may be taken including the following: the account can be listed by the Credit Bureau as a bad debt; a delinquent account can be collected in full from income tax refunds, lottery winnings or other refunds due from the state (for Virginia residents); and the account may be turned over to the Virginia Attorney General’s Office for litigation. Timely payment is strongly encouraged so that collection efforts can be avoided.
Set-off Debt Collection Act
Under the provisions of this act, an individual's Virginia income tax refund or lottery winnings will be subject to the University's claim for any unpaid balance of tuition and fees to the University. For more information, please visit https://ww1.odu.edu/tuition-aid/tuition/penalties/collections .
Dishonored Checks and Charge Cards
A $50.00 fee will be charged for each returned check or charge on a student’s account, with a maximum allowable of three returned checks after which check payments will no longer be accepted. For more information, please visit https://ww1.odu.edu/tuition-aid/tuition/penalties .
University Payment Plan (Fall & Spring Semesters)
Students may setup a payment plan in Leo Online, where charges for each semester are divided into four equal payments with a $40 nonrefundable setup fee, to be paid at the time the payment plan is established. Payment plans may not be available on past due balances.
Tuition Refund Policy
The total tuition is considered fully earned by the University once scheduled classes have begun. Students desiring to withdraw from the University must formally notify the University of their intention by executing an official withdrawal with the Office of the University Registrar . If completed by the posted deadlines each semester, students will be refunded the costs and fees associated with dropped courses.
Tuition Differentials (Add/Drop Policy)
In accordance with the refund periods, a full or partial refund of the difference between tuition paid and the new tuition charges will be granted if the per credit rates differ. In those instances where the revised tuition charges are greater, the additional tuition charges will be assessed.
Special Situations
For classes of less than one semester/session in length, refunds will be granted only before the first meeting of the class. Administrative withdrawals, as in the case of classes canceled by the University or the case of academically suspended students, entitle the student to a full refund of tuition. For refund purposes, the beginning of a semester is defined as the opening day of classes as shown in the course schedule and Undergraduate and Graduate Catalogs. For additional information, visit https://ww1.odu.edu/tuition-aid/tuition/refunds .
Return of Title IV Funds
According to federal regulations, financial aid funds are returned to the government when charges were paid by financial aid and a refund is given to a student who fully withdraws from the University. For more information or further assistance, please visit the Refunds page or contact the Office of Financial Aid .
Tuition Appeal Policy
Students may request tuition financial charges be dropped if a student meets the approved requirements by completing an official Tuition Appeal and providing necessary paperwork.
Senior Citizen Tuition Waiver
In accordance with the Senior Citizen’s Higher Education Act of 1974 (Code of Virginia, § 23.1-639, et seq.), a senior citizen* may take courses without paying tuition or required fees, except for course materials, under certain conditions. If the senior citizen has taxable individual income of not more than $23,850 in the preceding year, the individual may take a course for academic credit free of tuition and fees, except for fees established for the purpose of paying for course materials, such as laboratory fees, books, etc. Proof of income in the form of a Virginia Resident Form 760 or an IRS Verification of Non-Filing must be provided at the time of registration, along with the Senior Citizen Tuition Waiver Application & Registration Form. This form can be downloaded at https://odu.edu/registrar/forms .
A senior citizen, regardless of income level, may audit a course that is given for academic credit or take a noncredit course free of tuition and fees, except for fees established for the purpose of paying for course materials, such as laboratory fees or books.
No limit is placed on the number of terms or semesters in which a senior citizen who is not enrolled for academic credit may register for courses, but the individual can take no more than three noncredit courses in any one term, quarter, or semester. There will be no restriction on the number of courses that may be taken for credit in any term, semester or quarter, or on the number of terms, semesters or quarters in which an eligible senior citizen may take courses for credit.
The two additional conditions listed below shall be met before an individual may take a course under the provisions of this program:
Senior citizens wishing to use this benefit must be admitted as degree-seeking or non-degree students before registering, and
The senior citizen may be admitted to a course only on a space-available basis after all tuition-paying students have been accommodated on or after the first day of classes for the session in which the class is scheduled. Exceptions to this procedure may be made when the senior citizen has completed 75% of the requirements for a degree.
* “Senior citizen” means any person who, before the beginning of any term, semester or quarter in which such person claims entitlement to the benefits of this chapter, (i) has reached 60 years of age, and (ii) has had his legal domicile in this Commonwealth for one year. (Code of Virginia, § 23.1-639)
Deferment for Veterans
Old Dominion University offers a deferment for veterans, which extends the payment deadline for students whose veterans’ benefits are not available by the tuition deadline. More information may be found here: https://ww1.odu.edu/tuition-aid/tuition/military .
Federal Student Aid Refunds
Students who have a credit balance on their account may be eligible to receive a refund. The type of credit on a student's account will determine the method of initiating the refund and the length of time for a student to receive their refund. If there is a credit balance, then funds will be returned to the student in the form of a check or e-Refund. Additional information may be found here: https://ww1.odu.edu/tuition-aid/tuition/refunds .
Replacement Checks
Checks that are lost, mutilated, or destroyed can be replaced by issuing a Stop Payment Request Form . For more information, please visit https://ww1.odu.edu/tuition-aid/tuition/refunds .
Education Tax Credits
The IRS regulations require ODU to provide a statement of tuition and charges billed each calendar year via a 1098T Tax Form, issued no later than January 31 of each calendar year to all eligible students. For more information, please visit https://ww1.odu.edu/tuition-aid/tuition/education-tax-credits .
Contact Information
Information related to tuition and fees, billing, refunds, payment options and related forms may be directed to Customer Relations located in the downstairs lobby of Alfred B. Rollins, Jr. Hall: Local (757) 683-3030 Toll-free (800) 224-1450 FAX (757) 683-4100 e-mail tuition@odu.edu
Payment address: Office of Finance Old Dominion University Alfred B. Rollins, Jr. Hall Norfolk, VA 23529
Search catalog
