Campus Events ***
Either honors general education or honors contract.
An ePortfolio is a digital collection of student work developed across varied contexts (classes, internships, social activities, etc.) over time.  As students progress through a course of study at ODU, an ePortfolio can serve as a repository for their work.  As a result, when the need arises for students to reflect on and display their experiences, they may draw on the archived material, crafting a showcase portfolio for potential employers and faculty writing recommendations. Due to its digital nature, an ePortfolio allows students to create and share multi-media elements, such as videos, audio files, animation, and so forth.  Honors College students will create and maintain an ePortfolio showcasing work in and out of class while in the Honors College, which will be reviewed each semester. The Honors College provides workshops, as well as individualized support to assist students in the development of the ePortfolio.
Honors College students are required to attend one campus event per semester for up to 8 semesters.
Undergraduate Research Program
Under the leadership of the Perry Honors College, the undergraduate research program  includes an annual symposium, undergraduate research courses, a journal, a recognition program for faculty mentors and student researchers, as well as a robust grant program. The Undergraduate Research Program promotes, supports, and funds the involvement of undergraduate students in the active research community at Old Dominion University.  It provides undergraduates with hands-on experience working with faculty on a wide variety of research projects. Faculty mentors help students to acquire research skills early in their undergraduate careers. Later in their academic careers, students use and develop these skills through research-oriented course work, collaborative and faculty-sponsored research, and their own independent research projects, which can be potentially funded through Old Dominion’s Undergraduate Research and Creativity Grant Program. The Undergraduate Research Symposium and Undergraduate Research Journal provide students with the opportunity to present and publish their work under the supervision of the University’s distinguished faculty. Additional information regarding undergraduate research opportunities is available on the Undergraduate Research Program’s website: https://www.odu.edu/honors/research .
Contract Honors Courses
Students with a grade point average of at least 3.25 may transform any upper-division course into an Honors course on an individual basis. With the advice and consent of the instructor, students take one or more courses that can be converted into Honors. No grade below B is accepted for Honors designation. In addition, contract honors courses may be used to meet requirements for departmental honors. Interested students should contact the Honors College for additional information.
The Perry Honors College (PHC) and Batten College of Engineering & Technology Engineering Honors Program (EHP)
A partnership between the Perry Honors College and the Batten College of Engineering and Technology, the Engineering Honors Program (PHC/EHP) offers a program for select incoming freshmen, current ODU students, and transfer students.  The program has been designed for students who intend to make a difference in the world and who would enjoy the opportunity to ready themselves for future leadership positions in the field of engineering.   Throughout their PHC/EHP experience, students will have the opportunity to network with industry leaders, and they are encouraged to participate in undergraduate research, as well as experiential learning (such as engineering competitions, community engagement, internships, and study abroad). In their freshman year, PHC/EHP students may elect to live in the Honors Engineering living learning community, and they will enjoy an honors engineering course that focuses on hands-on learning in engineering labs and Engineering Makerspace & Invention Center. In their sophomore and junior years, PHC/EHP students will extend their learning beyond the classroom by participating in research apprenticeships and by developing a one-credit civic learning project in consultation with the Dean of the Honors College. In their sophomore and junior years, Contract courses (courses that are not labeled as honors but that the instructor can adapt to an honors student to make it an honors course) are available for PHC/EHP students to deepen their knowledge of course material for courses on the 300/400 level that are three credits or more. In their senior year, PHC/EHP students can request a faculty member to generate a senior elective honors three-credit contract course where student will hone their research skills and assess their academic strengths in preparation for graduate school and future employment.
The online application for admission into the Engineering Honors Program is available on the Perry Honors College website: https://www.odu.edu/honors/apply . All students must submit a resume, an essay describing how engineers might help to solve a contemporary real-world problem, and one letter of recommendation from an instructor attesting to the applicant's scholastic ability in an area relevant to engineering and their potential as a future leader in the field of engineering. As applications are reviewed holistically, students are encouraged to submit a portfolio showcasing their accomplishments in leadership, research, or in activities related to the field of engineering; a LinkedIn page with pictures and videos of projects and experiences is an optional solution to organize such portfolio
Eligibility
Application and acceptance into ODU
Application to the PHC/EHP
3.5 unweighted High School GPA in math and science courses
Students must have an intended major in the Batten College of Engineering and Technology and placement in Calculus I ( MATH 211 ) or higher before the start of their first semester.
Transfer Students
Application and acceptance into ODU
Application to the PHC/EHP
3.5 cumulative GPA and 3.5 in math and science courses, including completion of Calculus I ( MATH 211 ) before joining ODU.
Current ODU Students:
Application to the PHC/EHP
3.5 cumulative GPA (ODU) and 3.5 GPA (ODU) in math and science courses, including completion of Calculus I ( MATH 211 ) with a minimum grade of C.
Benefits
A stipend of $250 per semester for up to eight semesters as an undergraduate student
PHC/EHP students can apply to live in the Honors Engineering Living Learning Community. Applications for the LLC must be made directly to the Office of Housing and Residence Life. The Office of Housing and Residence Life prioritizes requests based on the date BOTH the application and housing deposit are received. Students will have preference to select single rooms.
PHC/EHP students can schedule an appointment with the Dean of the Honors College and the Dean’s Office of the College of Engineering and Technology for personalized letters of recommendation.
PHC/EHP students enjoy faculty privileges at the library.
Honors advising services that focus on opportunities and helping the student develop a portfolio of accomplishment at Old Dominion.
Tuition scholarships for HNRS courses, including HNRS 396 (honors study abroad).
PHC/EHP students may register for classes on the first day of the registration period following their first semester at Old Dominion.
PHC/EHP students have exclusive scholarship opportunities, including the John and Kate Broderick Opportunity Scholarship: https://www.odu.edu/honors/scholarship .
PHC/EHP students can apply for travel grants to offset the costs of travel to a national or international conference at which they are presenting.
PHC/EHP students may apply to the Honors College for up to $500 to offset the costs of equipment and supplies for the completion of research related to a research apprenticeship, honors contract course, or a senior honors thesis/project.
Reserved study time in a studio at the Engineering Systems Building.
Special access to the Engineering Makerspace & Invention Center activities.
Early acceptance in the linked undergraduate – graduate programs in engineering.
Special funding for projects and entrepreneurial activities.
Mentoring program with faculty and opportunities to mentor other engineering students.
Upon completion of the requirements of the Perry Honors College/Engineering Honors Program, students are awarded a certificate, a medal, and a silver tassel, and they will receive a special transcript designation.
Students with significant accomplishments in undergraduate research may petition to have the designation “Research Honors Scholar” placed on their transcript.  For additional information, students may contact the Perry Honors College or review the Undergraduate Research Honors Scholar information on the Perry Honors College website.
Upon completion of the requirements of the Perry Honors College/Engineering Honors Program, PHC/EHP students who meet the following requirements may also apply for an honors designation on their diploma (departmental honors):  Minimum cumulative GPA of 3.25; Minimum GPA in the major of 3.50; completion of at least two 300/400-level courses designated by the department to be honors; and completion of at least 60 credit hours at Old Dominion, 54 of which must be in grade-point graded courses.  Note:  To determine eligibility for departmental honors, the student’s complete record, including grades and hours for courses that have been forgiven or adjusted, will be evaluated to calculate the final grade point average.
Program Requirements
Requirement 1: Perry Honors College/Engineering Honors Program ePortfolio/LinkedIn*
Requirement 2: Honors Courses (four required): Honors ENGN 121 (required for first-year students); select three from the following: ENGL 231C :  Honors Section of Technical Communication, HNRS Independent Study (if approved by Honors College), honors general education courses, honors contract courses in engineering, engineering graduate courses taken as an undergraduate (e.g., those taken as part of a linked program).
Requirement 3: Experiential Learning and Leadership (select at least two from the following): engineering internship (may be repeated), participation in engineering competitions (e.g. concrete canoe, solar decathlon, motorsports, SAE aero, and Intelligent Ground Vehicle) or engineering projects with social impact (e.g., engineers without borders), HNRS 387 (Civic Learning Project), HNRS 396 (study abroad, when connected to engineering)
Requirement 4: Undergraduate Research (select at least two from the following): HNRS 226 (undergraduate research apprenticeship) or equivalent experience, poster or oral presentation at a regional/ national/international conference, successful application for and completion of an Undergraduate Research Grant project (see undergraduate research program webpage for additional information), authorship or co-authorship of an article accepted or published in a peer-reviewed journal or conference proceedings, a Research Experience for Undergraduates (REU) for fall, spring, or summer.  Note:  Successful work in a faculty member’s lab or a research-oriented internship may also be counted toward this requirement.
Requirement 5: Campus Events. PHC/EHP student are required to attend at least one campus event (e.g., internship fair, engineering club meeting, the PHC’s undergraduate research symposium) per semester.
Optional requirement: Contract Course - Honors Engineering Senior Elective.
*An ePortfolio is a digital collection of student work developed across varied contexts (classes, internships, social activities, etc.) over time.  As students progress through a course of study at ODU, an ePortfolio can serve as a repository for their work.  As a result, when the need arises for students to reflect on and display their experiences, they may draw on the archived material, crafting a showcase portfolio for potential employers and for faculty writing recommendations. Due to its digital nature, an ePortfolio allows students to create and share multi-media elements, such as videos, audio files, animation, and so forth.  Honors College students will create and maintain an ePortfolio showcasing work in and out of class while in the Honors College, which will be reviewed each semester. The Honors College provides workshops, as well as individualized support to assist students in the development of the ePortfolio. Placing all e-portfolio information on the student LinkedIn page is a requirement.
For additional information about the Honors College, visit the web site at http://www.odu.edu/honors or contact:
Shuntay Tarver, Ph.D. Dean of The Patricia and Douglas Perry Honors College 1126B Monarch Hall Old Dominion University Norfolk VA 23529-0076 (757) 683-3033
Courses
Honors (HNRS)
HNRS 100 Honors General Education Abroad (Humanities) (3 Credit Hours)
Taught in an international setting, special honors sections of general education courses meeting one of the following lower-division general education requirements:  oral communication, information literacy, language and culture, literature, human creativity, human behavior, interpreting the past, the impact of technology, or philosophy and ethics.
Prerequisites: A passing score on the Writing Success Placement Tool (WSPT) and permission of the instructor
HNRS 101 Honors General Education Abroad (Sciences) (3-4 Credit Hours)
Taught in an international setting, special honors sections of general education courses meeting one of the following lower-division general education requirements: mathematical skills, information literacy, the nature of science, and the impact of technology.
Prerequisites: A passing score on the Writing Success Placement Tool (WSPT)
HNRS 109 Engineering Student Success (3 Credit Hours)
For Perry Honors College students, the course introduces students to the engineering profession. The course covers math skills with engineering applications, as well as study skills and strategies for a successful transition into college. An application-oriented, hands-on approach to reinforce math topics used in core engineering courses will be used in the course. The course prepares prospective engineering majors for ENGN 110. This course does not count towards Batten College of Engineering & Technology graduation credit.
Prerequisites: Honors College approval and MATH 102M or MATH 103M
HNRS 200 Peer Education and Leadership (3 Credit Hours)
This course prepares students for work as peer mentors and tutors.  Students will develop skills in information literacy and research as they learn how to create and implement individualized student success/academic plans for themselves and others.
HNRS 201 Monarch Think Tank I (3 Credit Hours)
The Monarch Think Tank draws students from all disciplines to collaborate with each other, faculty and community members as they design project-based solutions to pertinent social issues.  Think Tank topics vary each year.  Guided by distinguished faculty, students analyze their topic through in-depth classroom and field research, readings and off-campus trips.
HNRS 226 Undergraduate Research Apprenticeship (1-3 Credit Hours)
The Research Apprenticeship offers students the opportunity to develop and acquire skills in research and information literacy through active involvement in ongoing research programs or in research projects under the supervision of a faculty mentor. Experiences may include but are not limited to gathering and analyzing information to develop proposals, survey construction, stakeholder identification, stimulus development, quantitative and qualitative data collection, statistical analysis, writing reports, and presenting results. Available research projects/programs will vary each semester. Interested students should consult with the Honors College Dean and visit the Honors College website for more information about research apprenticeship opportunities: http://www.odu.edu/ao/honors.
Prerequisites: approval of Honors College Dean
HNRS 250G Media and Info Literacy in the Google Age (3 Credit Hours)
This information literacy course focuses on communication technology and our sources for information, including digital, print, and non-print sources.  By focusing on the credibility control, privacy, and ownership of information, students will learn to identify an information need, then locate, evaluate, and use resources effectively and responsibly.  The course will enhance students' knowledge, evaluation, and use of scholarly and popular media material in the 21st century so that they might become well-informed critical thinkers, professionals, and citizens.
HNRS 300 Great Book Seminar (1 Credit Hour)
A 'Great Book' Seminar is a small (5-10 student), discussion-based class focused on a book that makes a difference, a work that has changed and influenced the ways people live and continue to think about themselves, others, and the world.  Led by a faculty mentor, students will develop their information literacy by interpreting, communicating, problem-solving, and charitably listening to a variety of viewpoints.  Faculty and student mentors will select the book read in this course.
Prerequisites: Must be a student in the Perry Honors College
HNRS 301 Monarch Think Tank II (3 Credit Hours)
The Monarch Think Tank draws students from all disciplines to collaborate with each other, faculty and community members as they design project-based solutions to pertinent social issues.  Think Tank topics vary each year.  Guided by distinguished faculty, students analyze their topic through in-depth classroom and field research, readings and off-campus trips.
Prerequisites: ENGL 211C or equivalent
HNRS 326 Undergraduate Research Apprenticeship II (3 Credit Hours)
Research apprenticeship with a faculty member, assisting a faculty member in the development and execution of research. May be repeated to 9 credit hours maximum.
Prerequisites: Honors College, permission of the instructor and 3.0 cumulative grade point average
HNRS 368 Honors Internship (3 Credit Hours)
Internship credit is available for Perry Honors College students who have secured an internship outside of their field of study or students that are not offered internship credit through their department.
Prerequisites: Must be a Perry Honors College Student
HNRS 386T Evolution of Modern Science (3 Credit Hours)
A section of SCI 302T / HIST 386T for Perry Honors College students, this course outlines the history of science from Aristotle to the present. Scientific progress has always been coupled with human progress and subject to the politics and culture of the times. Scientists, in most instances, have been in the mainstream of society. But, because of their curiosity and innovation, scientists have often clashed with the prevailing culture.
Prerequisites: HIST 100H , HIST 101H , HIST 102H , HIST 103H , HIST 104H , HIST 105H , HIST 126H , or HIST 127H
HNRS 387 Honors Civic Learning Project (1 Credit Hour)
Students volunteer for 45 hours of work, keep a work experience journal reflecting on their day-to-day experiences as a volunteer, and write a short paper detailing how the experience helped them to identify, revise and accomplish future learning and career goals.
Prerequisites: junior standing in the Honors College
HNRS 389 McNair Summer Research Institute (3 Credit Hours)
This research course is open only to TRiO McNair Scholars. During this 8-week course, students will acquire basic skills in research to include understanding research ethics, developing technical writing skills, and effectively disseminating their research. Students will demonstrate an understanding of research methodology, prepare a written literature review, construct their research proposal, and perform statistical analyses. Course instructors, faculty mentors, and the graduate assistant serving as the research and writing coach will offer individualized support to students in the completion of their research projects.
Prerequisites: junior standing in the Honors College
HNRS 390 McNair Senior Seminar (1 Credit Hour)
This course is open only to TRiO McNair Scholars. The purpose of this course is to prepare students for applying for admission into graduate programs and provide critical strategies for thriving at the graduate level and as a professional. Students will receive support in identifying the essential components of a graduate school application and establishing a clear understanding of how to prepare and succeed as a graduate student.
Prerequisites: Junior standing in the Honors College
HNRS 395 Honors Topics (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics. Honors Topics courses are designed to help students to make connections between academic knowledge and relevant experience, observe connections across disciplines, as well as adapt/apply skills, abilities, theories or methodologies gained in one situation to meet the needs of new situations. These courses are open to non-honors students with at least a 3.25 cumulative GPA. Courses will appear in the course schedule, and will be more fully described in information distributed to all academic advisors.
Prerequisites: Junior standing and permission of the instructor
HNRS 396 Honors Topics (Study Abroad) (1-4 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics examined in an international setting. Honors Topics Abroad courses are designed to help students gain new perspectives on their fields of study, develop intercultural competencies and communication skills, and engage with situations and questions that challenge their own assumptions/values. These courses are open to non-honors students with a cumulative GPA of at least 3.25. Courses will appear in the course schedule, and will be more fully described in information distributed to all academic advisors.
Prerequisites: Junior standing and permission of the instructor
HNRS 400 Honors ePortfolio (1 Credit Hour)
Recommended for juniors and seniors in the Perry Honors College, this course explores ways to showcase and reflect on the students' curricular and extracurricular honor education--showing the progression of their learning, experiences, and accomplishments that leads to where they want to go in life.  This is a guided opportunity to assist students in fulfilling their honors ePortfolio requirement and to develop their social media profiles.
Prerequisites: must be a Perry Honors College student
HNRS 401/501 Social Entrepreneurship (3 Credit Hours)
This class draws students from all disciplines to collaborate with each other, faculty, and community members as they co-design project-based solutions to pertinent social issues. Topics related to social entrepreneurship vary each year. Guided by distinguished faculty, students analyze their topic through in-depth classroom and field research, readings, and off-campus trips.
Prerequisites: ENGL 211C or equivalent
HNRS 402 Language Directed Study (3 Credit Hours)
Under the supervision of a faculty mentor, students work independently using self-instructional materials. The focus is on grammar, reading or writing. Language Directed Study does not satisfy general education, major or college language requirements.  Permission of the Honors College required.
Prerequisites: Honors College Students Only; Permission of Honors College required
HNRS 490 Translation Project (3 Credit Hours)
Honors College students will work in teams and individually to prepare sample translations for a variety of target audiences, markets, or clients. Individual project content will be varied:  some projects may focus on literary translation, while others with adapting websites, software, video games, and other products into forms that meet local expectations for content. The overarching goal is for students to develop tools for thinking about the centrality of translation across academic disciplines and realms of human experience.  An intermediate or advanced level of fluency in a language other than English is recommended to take this course.
Prerequisites: Perry Honors College student
HNRS 497 Honors Independent Study (1-3 Credit Hours)
Offered upon request each semester.  This course is an opportunity for students to engage in directed readings and/or research in a topic with which they are familiar.
Prerequisites: open to juniors and seniors in the Honors College
HNRS 498 Honors Independent Study (1-3 Credit Hours)
Offered upon request each semester.  This course is an opportunity for students to engage in directed readings and/or research in a topic with which they are familiar.
Prerequisites: open to juniors and seniors in the Honors College
HNRS 499 Senior Honors Thesis (3 Credit Hours)
Each student will undertake a research experience under the supervision of a faculty member.  A research proposal and research report are required.
Prerequisites: permission of the Honors College Dean, 3.25 cumulative GPA
Search catalog
