Explore the Barry Art Museum
Noon
5 p.m.
Barry Art Museum
Admire the glass art, paintings, dolls & automata, and works on paper collections within our museum on campus.
Access the Student Recreation & Well-Being Center
10 a.m.
6 p.m.
Student Recreation & Well-Being Center
Get active in our gym with waived guest fees when you visit the gym with your student. Guests will need to be 18+ to access weight lifting equipment, the pool, and other gym amenities.
Purchase tickets to Monarch Family Tailgate and Athletic Events
FAQs
Is there a cost to attend?
Events on Friday are free to attend and include dining tickets to Broderick Dining Commons for your entire party.
Registration for the Monarch Family Tailgate is $40 per family member. Children under 8 are free. Current ODU students are free.
How much are tickets to the football and basketball games?
Discounted tickets to the Family Weekend Football Game, Men's Basketball and Women's Basketball games are available through the Family Weekend ticketing page HERE
Can I get football tickets without registering to attend any Monarch Family Weekend events?
Yes. For more information and for purchasing, please visit odusports.com .
Where do I park?
Free game day parking is available for Saturday in the 43rd & Elkhorn Ave Garage , the Constant Center 43rd Street Garage , and Constant Center 45th Street Garage . We ask that guests please follow the posted signage.
Where can I park to tailgate?
Only those members of the Old Dominion Athletic Foundation with a proper vehicle pass will be allowed to park in surface lots to tailgate for the game. However, entrance to the Monarch Family Weekend Tailgate on Kaufman Mall is included with your registration. Tailgating in the parking garages is not permitted.
What should I wear to the game?
Be sure to check the weather forecast and dress accordingly. We recommend ODU spirit wear and comfortable walking shoes.
What is the refund policy?
All sales are final. No refunds will be given.
Student Engagement & Traditions
