Graduate Courses
DANC 152R Acting One (3 Credit Hours)
An introduction to the physical and vocal principles of performance coupled with an opportunity to increase awareness of the constructed nature of social interactions. Students will explore confident self-expression through the physical, vocal, emotional and technical aspects of acting, as an art form and a daily experience, in a format that encourages freedom of imagination and personal growth. Emphasis is on the fundamental communication skills of presence, body language, imagination, and social communication.
DANC 185A Dance and Its Audience (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to acquaint students with the components of theatrical dance performance, its historical and ethnic origins, its role as a creative expression of peoples and societies and its relationship to other art forms.  Through films, videos, live performances, guest speakers, readings and discussions, students consider philosophical approaches to language, communication, aesthetics and style of choreography.
DANC 195 Topics in Dance (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics designed for nonmajors, or for elective credit within a major.
DANC 196 Topics in Dance (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics designed for nonmajors, or for elective credit within a major.  These courses will appear in the course schedule, and will be more fully described in a booklet distributed to academic advisors.
DANC 201 Ballet Technique 1 (2 Credit Hours)
Introduction to ballet technique.
DANC 211 Modern Dance Technique 1 (2 Credit Hours)
Introduction to modern dance technique.
DANC 231 Ballroom Dance 1 (1 Credit Hour)
This class introduces students to basic American and Latin ballroom dance.  Basic steps of the foxtrot, waltz, swing, tango, cha cha and rumba will be covered.  Focus on rhythm, technique, leading and following is also included.  This class is open to single students and couples.
DANC 232 Ballroom Dance 2 (1 Credit Hour)
This class is a continuation of basic American and Latin ballroom dance.  Basic steps of the foxtrot, waltz, swing, tango, cha cha and rumba will be covered.  Focus is on rhythm, technique, leading and following.  The class is open to single students and couples.
DANC 235 Yoga (2 Credit Hours)
An introduction to yoga postures, breathing exercises, and relaxation techniques that promote health, alleviate stress, improve skeletal alignment, and increase muscular strength and flexibility.  Students are also introduced to the history and philosophy of yoga.
DANC 241 Pilates Mat Class I (1 Credit Hour)
This course will introduce students to the Pilates method. Students will learn beginning-level Pilates exercises on the mat.
DANC 242 Pilates Mat Class 2 (1 Credit Hour)
A continuation of the study of the Pilates method. Students will learn intermediate-level Pilates exercises on the mat.
Prerequisites: DANC 241 or permission of the instructor
DANC 251 Tap Dance I (1 Credit Hour)
Introduction to tap dance styles including classic, hoof and rhythm. Fundamental movements such as time steps, grab-offs, riffs, etc. are incorporated using counterpoint rhythms and challenges.  Students gain an understanding of tap dance as an American art form.
DANC 271 Introduction to Filmmaking (3 Credit Hours)
This course will introduce the beginning student to making movies. Students will learn the basics of working with cameras, lights, sound recording, video editing and post production. This is a hands-on production course.
DANC 295 Topics in Dance (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics designed for nonmajors, or for elective credit within a major.  These courses appear in the course schedule, and are fully described in a booklet distributed to academic advisors.
DANC 296 Topics in Dance (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics designed for nonmajors, or for elective credit within a major.  These courses appear in the course schedule, and are fully described in a booklet distributed to academic advisors.
DANC 301 Ballet in Context (1 Credit Hour)
An examination of the history, theory, and practice of Ballet.
Prerequisites: Junior standing
Pre- or corequisite: DANC 201
DANC 302 Ballet Technique 2 (2 Credit Hours)
Continuation of ballet technique.
Prerequisites: DANC 201 or permission of the instructor
DANC 303 Ballet Technique 3 (1-4 Credit Hours)
Continuation of ballet technique at an intermediate level.
Prerequisites: DANC 302 or permission of the instructor
DANC 311 Modern Dance in Context (1 Credit Hour)
An examination of the history, theory, and practice of Modern Dance.
Prerequisites: Junior standing
Pre- or corequisite: DANC 211
DANC 312 Modern Dance Technique 2 (2 Credit Hours)
Continuation of modern dance technique.
Prerequisites: DANC 211 or permission of the instructor
DANC 313 Modern Dance Technique 3 (1-4 Credit Hours)
Continuation of modern dance technique at an intermediate level.
Prerequisites: DANC 312 or permission of the instructor
DANC 320 Jazz in Context (1 Credit Hour)
An examination of the history, theory, and practice of Jazz.
Prerequisites: Junior standing
Pre- or corequisite: DANC 201 or DANC 211
DANC 321 Jazz Dance 1 (1 Credit Hour)
Introduction to jazz dance technique.
Prerequisites: DANC 201 or DANC 211 or DANC 260 or permission of instructor
DANC 322 Jazz Dance 2 (1 Credit Hour)
Continuation of jazz dance technique.
Prerequisites: DANC 321 or permission of the instructor
DANC 330 Extreme Moves (Conditioning for Dancers) (2 Credit Hours)
This course explores the extended physical technique known as Extreme Moves. The Extreme Moves training method focuses on the body’s alignment with regard to how forces are present, how they act upon it, and how to build strength to resist or collaborate with these forces. Students will work with props such as large physio balls, elastic bands, mats and the wall in order to improve their core strength, balance, upper and lower body strength and alignments. Through physical practice, readings and videos, students will learn the conceptual framework for Extreme Moves.
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
DANC 341 Pilates Equipment Lab 1 (1-2 Credit Hours)
This course will focus on learning beginning and some intermediate exercises on the Pilates equipment, which includes the Reformer, Cadillac, Lo Chair and Magic Circle.
Prerequisites: DANC 241 or instructor permission
DANC 342 Pilates Equipment Lab 2 (1-2 Credit Hours)
This course will focus on learning intermediate and some advanced exercises on the Pilates equipment, which includes the Reformer, Cadillac, Low Chair and Magic Circle.
Prerequisites: DANC 341 or instructor permission
DANC 360 Rhythmic Analysis (1 Credit Hour)
A study of basic music theory specifically designed for the dancer.  Emphasis is on score reading, accompaniment for dance, note values and rhythms as they directly relate to choreography in a classroom as well as in the rehearsal studio.  Students perform movement studies based on rhythmic structures.
Prerequisites: DANC 201 or DANC 211 or permission of the instructor
DANC 361 Hip Hop Dance & Culture 1 (2 Credit Hours)
This course will explore hip hop dance and culture from several points of entry: movement, historical, political, aesthetic, sonic, and geographical.  The historical focus of the course locates hip-hop dance as a personal, interactive, and cultural expression. Students will navigate through the evolution of hip hop dance and culture from its birthplace in the Bronx, NY through its development into a global phenomenon.  The course will discuss the elements of hip hop culture: DJ, B-Boy/Girl, Graffiti Art, MC, and Beat Box, and how they intersect.  Students will explore how hip-hop influences and is influenced by geopolitics, race, gender, and other social structures.
Prerequisites: DANC 261
DANC 362 Hip Hop Dance & Culture 2 (2 Credit Hours)
This course will continue to explore hip hop dance and culture from several points of entry: movement, historical, political, aesthetic, sonic, and geographical.  The historical focus of the course locates hip hop dance as a personal, interactive, and cultural expression. Students will navigate deeper through the evolution of hip hop dance and culture from its birthplace in the Bronx, NY through its development into a global phenomenon.  The course will continue its discussion on the elements of hip hop culture: DJ, B-Boy/Girl, Graffiti Art, MC, and Beat Box, and how they intersect.  Students will continue to explore how hip-hop influences and is influenced by geopolitics, race, gender, and other social structures.
Prerequisites: DANC 361
DANC 367 Cooperative Education (1-3 Credit Hours)
Student participation for credit based on the academic relevance of the work experience, criteria and evaluative procedures as formally determined by the department and Career Development Services prior to the semester in which the work experience takes place. Available for pass/fail grading only.
Prerequisites: Approval of the department and Career Development Services
DANC 368 Internship (1-3 Credit Hours)
A structured work experience with or without remuneration, in an appropriately related disciplinary field. An ePortfolio, 150 hours of site work, plus satisfactory evaluations by supervisor and cooperating faculty member are required. Available for pass/fail grading only. Available to Communication, Theatre, and Dance majors and minors only. Cross-listed with COMM 368 and THEA 368 .
Prerequisites: Approval of departmental internship director prior to registration
DANC 369 Practicum (1-3 Credit Hours)
Field experience in dance.
Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor
DANC 370 Dance Composition 1 (2 Credit Hours)
Designed for dance majors or minors, this course is a study of the elements and craft of choreography through practical and written experience.  Time, space and dynamics are explored through assigned movement studies.  Projects are designed for the creative development of personal movement repertoire and compositional skills for the dancer, choreographer and dance educator.
Prerequisites: DANC 211 and DANC 390 or equivalent ( DANC 312 , DANC 313 , DANC 414 , DANC 415 , DANC 416)
DANC 373 Production/Performance Lab (1 Credit Hour)
This course provides students opportunities to participate in productions in Theatre, Dance or Film. These positions provide hands-on experience in the discipline. Cross-listed with THEA 373 .
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
DANC 374 Production/Performance Lab (1 Credit Hour)
This course provides students opportunities to participate in productions in Theatre, Dance or Film. These positions provide hands-on experience in the discipline. Cross-listed with THEA 374 .
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
DANC 389W Dancing Power:  Dance as Communication and Transformation (3 Credit Hours)
Designed for dance majors or minors, this course focuses on the lives and contributions of dance artists who have most influenced the history of dance as art since the turn of the 20th century.  The class explores the many facets of dance and its relationship to other art forms.  Also included is a major research project and presentation focusing on a specific dance history topic. This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in ENGL 211C or equivalent
DANC 390 Improvisation (3 Credit Hours)
An exploration of creativity through structured exercises, games and problems. Students participate in experiential studies that explore improvisational approaches, devices and elements to gain skills in the art of improvisation. This course also includes group discussions of reading assignments and feedback sessions following the improvisations performed in class. Through readings, journal writings, and in-class exercises, students develop the skills to articulate what they see, feel and respond to as artists, performers, and observers. Cross-listed with THEA 390 .
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
DANC 393 Functional Anatomy for Movement Practices (3 Credit Hours)
This course is an analysis of human motion through a study of anatomy, kinesiology and movement fundamentals.
Prerequisites: DANC 201 or DANC 211 or DANC 235 or DANC 241 or DANC 321 or DANC 341 or DANC 361
DANC 395 Topics in Dance (3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics designed for nonmajors, or for elective credit within a major.  These courses appear in the course schedule, and are more fully described in a booklet distributed to academic advisors.
Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor
DANC 396 Topics in Dance (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics designed for nonmajors, or for elective credit within a major.  These courses appear in the course schedule, and and are more fully described in a booklet distributed to academic advisors.
Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor
DANC 404 Ballet Technique 4 (1-4 Credit Hours)
Continuation of ballet technique at an intermediate level.
Prerequisites: DANC 303 or permission of the instructor
DANC 405 Ballet Technique 5 (1-4 Credit Hours)
Continuation of ballet technique at an advanced level.
Prerequisites: DANC 404 or permission of the instructor
DANC 414 Modern Dance Technique 4 (1-4 Credit Hours)
Continuation of modern dance technique at an intermediate level.
Prerequisites: DANC 313 or permission of the instructor
DANC 415 Modern Dance Technique 5 (1-4 Credit Hours)
Continuation of modern dance technique at an advanced level.
Prerequisites: DANC 414 or permission of the instructor
DANC 423 Jazz Dance 3 (1 Credit Hour)
Continuation of jazz dance technique at an intermediate/advanced level.
Prerequisites: DANC 322 or permission of the instructor
DANC 424 Jazz Dance 4 (1 Credit Hour)
Continuation of jazz dance technique at an intermediate/advanced level.
Prerequisites: DANC 423 or permission of the instructor
DANC 463 Hip Hop Dance and Culture 3 (2 Credit Hours)
This course locates hip hop dance as a personal, interactive, and cultural expression. The course will focus primarily on the movement elements (Breakin, Popping, Locking, Party Dances, and Choreographic elements) of Hip Hop, deepening the breadth of knowledge students have been exposed to in DANC 361 and DANC 362 .
Prerequisites: DANC 361 and DANC 362 or permission of instructor
DANC 464 Hip Hop Dance and Culture 4 (2 Credit Hours)
This course locates hip hop dance as a personal, interactive, and cultural expression. The course will continue its study of the movement elements (Breakin, Popping, Locking, Party Dances, and choreographic elements) of Hip Hop, deepening the breadth of knowledge students have been exposed to in Hip Hop DANC 361 , DANC 362 and DANC 463 . Lastly a major focus of this course will be a test of self and how each student embraces the cypher and its many elements as a tool to continue the exploration into knowledge production, creative expression, and critical inquiry
Prerequisites: DANC 361 , DANC 362 and DANC 463 or permission of instructor
DANC 470 Dance Composition 2 (2 Credit Hours)
This course builds on the skills developed in Dance Composition 1, including the exploration of time, space and dynamics, with a focus on constructing fully realized group and solo dance compositions.
Prerequisites: DANC 370 and permission of the instructor
DANC 473 Production/Performance Lab (1 Credit Hour)
This course provides students opportunities to participate in productions in Theatre, Dance or Film. These positions provide hands-on experience in the discipline. Cross-listed with THEA 473 .
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
DANC 474 Production/Performance Lab (1 Credit Hour)
This course provides students opportunities to participate in productions in Theatre, Dance or Film. These positions provide hands-on experience in the discipline. Cross-listed with THEA 474 .
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
DANC 489 Principles of Teaching Dance (2 Credit Hours)
This course covers basic methods of movement education as applied to the teaching of ballet, modern dance, jazz, and movement for children.  An understanding of anatomical structure and mechanics is utilized in the analysis of student performance in dance class.  Specific objectives for dance exercises are explored.  Practical experiences in the planning, organization and structure of technique classes of various styles are designed to prepare students as dance educators.
Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor
DANC 490 Pedagogy for Dance Educators (3 Credit Hours)
Methods and instructional theories and strategies of movement education as applied to the teaching of ballet, modern dance, jazz, and movement for children.  Practical experience in the structure, organization and assessment of dance arts programs for the K-12 public school setting.
Prerequisites: A passing score on the Praxis I or equivalent instrument and admittance into the Teacher Education program
DANC 495/595 Topics in Dance (1-3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics designed to permit small groups of qualified students to work on subjects of mutual interest which, due to their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly.  These courses appear in the course schedule, and are more fully described in a booklet distributed to academic advisors.
Prerequisites: Appropriate survey course or permission of the instructor
DANC 496/596 Topics in Dance (1-3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics designed to permit small groups of qualified students to work on subjects of mutual interest which, due to their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly.  These courses appear in the course schedule, and are more fully described in a booklet distributed to academic advisors.
Prerequisites: Appropriate survey course or permission of the instructor
DANC 497/597 Tutorial Work in Special Topics in Dance (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor.  Conferences and papers as appropriate.
Prerequisites: Senior standing and approval of the department chair
DANC 498/598 Tutorial Work in Special Topics in Dance (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor.  Conferences and papers as appropriate.
Prerequisites: Senior standing and approval of the department chair
DANC 499 Senior Project (1 Credit Hour)
Completion of a major research project during one's senior year on a topic of particular interest to the student.  Topics to be selected under the direction of an instructor with conferences as appropriate.  (Qualifies as a CAP experience.)
Prerequisites: Senior standing and approval of the department chair
DANC 595 Topics in Dance (1-3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics designed to permit small groups of qualified students to work on subjects of mutual interest which, due to their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly.  These courses appear in the course schedule, and are more fully described in a booklet distributed to academic advisors.
Prerequisites: Appropriate survey course or permission of the instructor
DANC 596 Topics in Dance (1-3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics designed to permit small groups of qualified students to work on subjects of mutual interest which, due to their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly.  These courses appear in the course schedule, and are more fully described in a booklet distributed to all academic advisors.
Prerequisites: Appropriate survey course or permission of the instructor
DANC 597 Tutorial Work in Special Topics in Dance (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor.  Conferences and papers as appropriate.
Prerequisites: graduate standing and approval of the department chair
DANC 598 Tutorial Work in Special Topics in Dance (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor.  Conferences and papers as appropriate.
Prerequisites: graduate standing and approval of the department chair
DANC 697 Tutorial Work in Spcecial Topics in Dance (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor.  Conferences and papers as appropriate.
Prerequisites: Graduate standing and approval of the department chair
DANC 698 Tutorial Work in Spcecial Topics in Dance (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor.  Conferences and papers as appropriate.
Prerequisites: Graduate standing and approval of the department chair
Search catalog
