No Undergraduate courses found.
CCL 766 Seminar on the Modern Community College: Foundations, Philosophy, and Vision (3 Credit Hours)
A critical examination of the future of the community college, considering the current strengths and weaknesses within the higher education community. Ultimately, the course strives to prepare students to understand, assess, and contribute to the betterment of community college education. Students develop and articulate thoughts, ideas, and opinions on how to re-imagine the community college in order to improve institutional performance and to more effectively serve all students.
CCL 820 Community College Leadership (3 Credit Hours)
Provides students with the theory, knowledge and skills needed to be an effective leader within the community college system.  Course assignments take a practical approach to identifying and applying theoretical principles and personal leadership style.
Prerequisites: Acceptance into the doctoral program or permission of the instructor
CCL 824 Community College Finance, Fundraising, and Resource Management (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of the necessary financial knowledge and skills required for community college leaders through the exploration of how the mission and goals of the community college are directly connected to financial considerations. Course activities help prepare students to take leadership roles in budget decisions, development of state and local government appropriations, fundraising, resource management, and financial decisions that are based on data and realistic institutional goals.
Prerequisites: Acceptance into the doctoral program or permission of the instructor
CCL 826 Community College Curriculum, Program Development, and Quality Assurance (3 Credit Hours)
A critical examination of community college curricula and program development. Students will develop the knowledge to understand and defend curricular issues related to developmental education, transfer education, career, technical and vocational education, continuing education, and general education.
Prerequisites: Acceptance into the doctoral program or permission of the instructor
CCL 830 Community College Politics, Policy, and Advocacy (3 Credit Hours)
An analysis of the political factors that influence educational policy decisions at community colleges and other higher education institutions. The course will examine policy-in-action in order to help students understand the relationships community college leaders build with community college boards of trustees, county commissioners, state legislators, and federal representatives.
Prerequisites: Acceptance into the doctoral program or permission of the instructor
CCL 866 Seminar on the Modern Community College: Foundations, Philosophy, and Vision (3 Credit Hours)
A critical examination of the future of the community college, considering the current strengths and weaknesses within the higher education community. Ultimately, the course strives to prepare students to understand, assess, and contribute to the betterment of community college education. Students develop and articulate thoughts, ideas, and opinions on how to re-imagine the community college in order to improve institutional performance and to more effectively serve all students.
CCL 868 Internship in Community College Leadership (3-6 Credit Hours)
Provides students an opportunity  to obtain hands-on experience in a leadership role at a community college setting. The students learn about leadership skills at the community college by observing a mentor/site supervisor and by being given leadership tasks associated with the site chosen.
Prerequisites: acceptance into the doctoral program or permission of the instructor
CCL 881 Dissertation Seminar (3 Credit Hours)
A seminar that focuses on the design, implementation, and evaluation of community colleges under real-life conditions in the field.  Students and faculty work with community college decision makers utilizing problem solving skills and analysis.
CCL 895 Topics in Community College Leadership (1-3 Credit Hours)
Study of selected topics in community college leadership.
Prerequisites: permission of the instructor
CCL 897 Independent Study (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent study of special topics in community college leadership for doctoral students.
Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor
CCL 899 Dissertation (1-12 Credit Hours)
Directed research for the doctoral dissertation.
Prerequisites: Permission of faculty advisor
CCL 999 Doctoral Graduate Credit (1 Credit Hour)
This course is a pass/fail course doctoral students may take to maintain active status after advancement to candidacy. All doctoral students are required to be registered for at least one graduate credit hour every semester until their graduation.
Search catalog
