Dr. Rene Love Named Dean of Ellmer School of Nursing
Dr. Rene Love Named Dean of Ellmer School of Nursing
January 28, 2025
By EVMS News
Rene Love, Ph.D., D.N.P., PMHNP-BC, FNAP, FAANP, FAAN, has been named dean of Macon & Joan Brock Virginia Health Sciences Ellmer School of Nursing at Old Dominion University. Dr. Love will begin her new duties April 1, 2025.
“We are fortunate to attract Dr. Love following an extensive national search,” said Alfred Abuhamad, MD, executive vice president of Macon & Joan Brock Virginia Health Sciences at Old Dominion University and dean of Eastern Virginia Medical School at ODU. “Dr. Love brings a rich combination of knowledge, capabilities and experience to this key leadership position. She is an innovative educator and a passionate scholar. She is also an experienced administrator and national leader within the nursing profession.”
Dr. Love joins Old Dominion University from the University of Florida where, since 2020, she has served as associate dean for Academic Affairs – Graduate Clinical Education and a clinical professor.
“I am excited to begin my journey as the dean of Macon & Joan Brock Virginia Health Sciences Ellmer School of Nursing at ODU, where I look forward to collaborating with passionate faculty, students, and staff to shape the future of nursing education,” Dr. Love said. “This opportunity is an honor and an exciting challenge as I help to facilitate the integration of Ellmer School of Nursing into the newly formed Macon & Joan Brock Virginia Health Sciences. I can’t wait to contribute to the growth and success of our nursing programs by working together to elevate the quality of education, foster innovative research, and prepare the next generation of compassionate, skilled healthcare leaders.”
Prior to her time at the University of Florida, Dr. Love was director of the Doctor of Nursing Practice (D.N.P.) program and a clinical professor at the University of Arizona, where she earned her Ph.D. in nursing. From 2014 to 2015, she was specialty director of the Psychiatric-Mental Health Nurse Practitioner program, D.N.P. integrative course coordinator (2013-2015) and an assistant professor at Vanderbilt School of Nursing (2010-2015). She had previously been an adjunct professor at Vanderbilt University from 1999-2010.  She completed her master’s and D.N.P. at Vanderbilt and earned a post-master’s certificate in Psychiatric Mental Health (family). She earned her bachelor’s degree at Valdosta State University.
Her extensive teaching experience is primarily at the graduate nursing education level. She has taught D.N.P. project and role courses and developed telehealth modules and simulation that were imbedded in nurse practitioner courses.
Her research and scholarship have focused on resilience within vulnerable populations. She has been invited to speak at conferences across the country and internationally.
Dr. Love has provided leadership to national groups working with competencies, curriculum and psychiatric mental health scope and standards setting for the American Nursing Association. She is past president of the International Society of Psychiatric Nursing and served as a member at large on the board of the National Organization for Nurse Practitioner Faculty. She is a fellow of the American Academy of Nursing, the American Academy of Nurse Practitioners and the Nursing Academy in the National Academies of Practice.
Dr. Love follows Karen A. Karlowicz, Ed.D., RN, who is serving as interim dean.
“I am grateful to Dr. Karlowicz for her wonderful service and leadership at the Ellmer School of Nursing at ODU,” Dr. Abuhamad said.
