Apply to Register a New Organization
Each organization is required to register with Student Engagement and Traditions. The process begins by logging into Monarch Groups with your MIDAS ID and password. Click "Groups", located at the top of the page, followed by "All Groups". Then click the "Register new Student Engagement & Traditions" button located at the top of the page.
Complete the form in its entirety. Two representatives, an advisor, and a constitution are required to be considered for provisional status. A sample constitution can be found on the Monarch Groups homepage.
Student Engagement and Traditions will review the application. Once the application is approved, the organization will be notified and granted a 3-month provisional status.
In addition to approval from Student Engagement and Traditions, the application will be submitted to the Student Government Association (SGA) Administrative Affairs Committee for further review.
The SGA Administrative Affairs Committee will meet with individuals from the organization to discuss future plans and goals of the group. The organization representative will be able to raise any questions or concerns during this meeting.
Once the SGA Administrative Affairs Committee has met with the proposed organization, they will vote on the recognition of the organization. The organization will be notified via email about the outcome of the vote.
Organizations qualify for funding from SGA after the organization receives Recognized Status.
Note: The time it takes for the entire process to occur will depend on how many organizations the SGA Administrative Affairs Committee must review, as well as the amount of time it takes the Committee to meet with the organization. During any step in this process, individuals from the organization can contact the Committee to check on the status of their application. Please direct any questions or concerns to the SGA Administrative Affairs Committee at sga@odu.edu .
Student Engagement & Traditions
