Graduate Courses
ARTS 122A Visual Communication (3 Credit Hours)
An introduction to essential themes and means of visual communication in the fine arts with an emphasis on studio experience in techniques from the different disciplines in studio art.
ARTS 126A Honors: Art as Experience (3 Credit Hours)
Open only to students in the Honors College.  A special honors section of ARTS 122A .
ARTS 202 Two-Dimensional Design and Color Theory (3 Credit Hours)
An introduction to pictorial design via an intensive study of the elements and  principles of art and design and Gestalt Theory. These fundamental ideas are reinforced as color theory principles are introduced, such as: additive and subtractive color systems, color interaction, and harmonies as well as the phenomenon of simultaneous contrast.
ARTS 203 Three-Dimensional Design (3 Credit Hours)
A basic course examining the relation of form and structure in a three-dimensional environment.
ARTS 204 Foundational Concepts in Studio Art (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides students an overview of the options, methods, and strategies by which modern and contemporary artists operate. One of the primary learning outcomes is for students to be conversant with the discourse and ideas that they have inherited as artists, designers, and scholars in the 21st century in order to enrich their own creative practices.
ARTS 211 Introduction to Digital Photography (3 Credit Hours)
Introduction to conceptual, technical and historical aspects of photography as a creative medium using digital technology.  Technical areas covered include camera use, digital image processing, and digital printing.  Class time is divided between demonstrations of applicable skills, in class work time, lectures and critiques.
Prerequisites: ARTS 279 or permission of the instructor
ARTS 221 Introduction  to Glass: Survey (3 Credit Hours)
This course is structured to provide instruction to glass forming, balanced with the history, criticism, and aesthetics of glass art.  It is a basic course in the techniques of glassblowing, flameworking, kiln forming and coldworking, taught through a series of hands-on projects. Lectures, demonstrations, and critiques encourage students to consider both the technical and conceptual manifestations of this material. In addition, the Chrysler Museum’s extensive contemporary and historical glass collection and interaction with visiting and resident glass artists will be utilized.  The course allows students of all skill levels to learn new techniques to advance Io a higher level of art production.
Prerequisites: ARTS 203
ARTS 231 Drawing I: Fundamentals of Drawing (3 Credit Hours)
An intensive studio course that fosters observational and visualization skills through a comprehensive exploration of composition, linear perspective, and sighting and measuring techniques. These principles are executed by utilizing line and value with a variety of media including graphite, charcoal, and ink. Investigations of the discipline's historic and contemporary dimensions support the course objectives.
ARTS 241 Painting I (3 Credit Hours)
An observational painting course that serves as an introduction to the fundamental concepts and competencies of oil painting. Primary emphasis is on composition, accuracy of color mixing, description of form and space as well as paint application techniques.
ARTS 254 Printmaking: The Relief Print (3 Credit Hours)
An introduction to basic relief printing techniques including woodcut, linocut, letterpress, and collograph.
Pre- or corequisite: ARTS 202 and ARTS 231 ; one or both may be taken before; one may be taken as a corequisite
ARTS 257 Print I: Intaglio and Relief (3 Credit Hours)
A basic introduction to the aesthetic and conceptual possibilities of print media, focusing primarily on Intaglio and Relief printing techniques. Studio projects and demonstrations will be supplemented with lectures and readings exploring the significance of print to contemporary artists.
Prerequisites: ARTS 202 and ARTS 231
ARTS 258 Print I: Screenprint and Lithography (3 Credit Hours)
A basic introduction to the aesthetic and conceptual possibilities of print media, focusing primarily on Screenprinting and Lithography. Studio projects and demonstrations will be supplemented with lectures and readings exploring the significance of print to contemporary artists.
Prerequisites: ARTS 202 and ARTS 231
ARTS 259 Print I: Letterpress and Book Arts (3 Credit Hours)
A basic introduction to the aesthetic and conceptual possibilities of print media, focusing primarily on Letterpress and Book Arts. Studio projects and demonstrations will be supplemented with lectures and readings exploring the significance of print to contemporary artists.
Prerequisites: ARTS 202 and ARTS 231
ARTS 261 Introduction to Sculpture (3 Credit Hours)
Conceptual thinking in three dimensions; the development of visual capacity and spatial sense through direct experience in materials.
Prerequisites: ARTS 202 and ARTS 203
ARTS 263 Introduction to Ceramics (3 Credit Hours)
A studio core course designed as an introduction to ceramics.  Students will explore functional and sculptural techniques through handbuilding and wheel-throwing, as well as basic claybody, glaze and firing theory.  Students will also develop a basic understanding of the historical and cultural aspects of ceramics.
Prerequisites: ARTS 202 and ARTS 203
ARTS 279 Digital Basics (3 Credit Hours)
This course is an introduction to the Macintosh operating system, design industry-standard software programs, and technical applications to visual arts and design production. The course provides an overview of Adobe software programs (Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign) and techniques for bitmap and vector image creation as well as page layout as used in print design and digital media development.
ARTS 281 Weaving and Fibers: Introduction (3 Credit Hours)
An introduction to various looms, tools, materials and techniques used in weaving and fabric dyeing; individual design projects.
Prerequisites: ARTS 202 and ARTS 203
ARTS 291 Introduction to Jewelry and Metalsmithing (3 Credit Hours)
This course is an introduction to the fundamentals of design and metal fabrication techniques for both jewelry and small objects. Working with precious and non-precious metals, students will learn traditional techniques including sawing, filing, cold connections, soldering, and polishing. A series of structured assignments guide students as they transform their ideas into finished works. Solutions for projects are open to enable the student to explore their own aesthetic while mastering the outlined material. Lectures on historical, contemporary and cultural examples of jewelry inform and inspire students' work.
Prerequisites: ARTS 203 or permission of the instructor
ARTS 300 Introduction to Computer Graphics (3 Credit Hours)
An introductory studio art course for non-art majors. The course is designed to acquaint students with industry standard graphic software, the Macintosh operating system, and its application to digital graphics production. It includes an overview of computer hardware and software used for visual communication.
Prerequisites: Junior standing
ARTS 311 Photography 2 (3 Credit Hours)
This course encourages the refinement of technical skills as well as emphasizing the critical framework in which to place photographic imagery.  Assignments will challenge students to think creatively and develop their unique perspective.  Reading, research, and discussion introduce students to the major photographic movements that have shaped current theory.
Prerequisites: ARTS 211 or permission of the instructor
ARTS 312 Lighting for Photography (3 Credit Hours)
This class explores controlled lighting for photography both inside and outside the studio. Emphasis is placed on exploring photographic concepts and the creative application of lighting technique and style both inside the studio and on location. Students will also investigate ways to communicate ideas through strong photographic imagery and how photography shapes and influences society through class readings and discussion.
Prerequisites: ARTS 211 or permission of the instructor
ARTS 313 Darkroom Photography (3 Credit Hours)
This course will focus on alternative as well as conventional techniques of the black and white darkroom. The class will approach image making with a focus on experimentation. Techniques covered will include photograms, pinhole photography, Van Dyke brown and gelatin silver prints. In addition to production of images, an early history of photography, beginning with the camera obscura, will be discussed. Class sessions will be divided into lecture/slide presentations, critique of students' work, demonstrations, and open lab time. Students will create a final portfolio to be reviewed as a class at the end of the semester.
Prerequisites: ARTS 211 or permission of the instructor
ARTS 321 Intermediate Glass: Hot and Flame (3 Credit Hours)
This course is structured to provide instruction to glass forming, balanced with the history, criticism, and aesthetics of glass art.  It is an intermediate course in the techniques of glassblowing, flame working, and coldworking, taught through a series of hands-on projects. Lectures, demonstrations, and critiques will encourage students to consider both the technical and conceptual manifestations of this material.  In addition, the Chrysler Museum’s extensive contemporary and historical glass collection and interaction with visiting and resident glass artists will be utilized.  The course allows students of intermediate levels to learn new techniques to advance to a higher level of art production.
Prerequisites: ARTS 203 and ARTS 221
ARTS 331 Drawing II (3 Credit Hours)
This is an intensive studio course that builds on the perceptual and technical skills developed in ARTS 231 . Using a variety of media including ink, charcoal, graphite, and chalk pastels, initial coursework will act as a review of direct observational drawing skills with an introduction to the formal optics of color perception and interaction through the framework of drawing. Students will begin exploring the expressive potential of drawing through thematically-driven projects during the second half of the semester.
Prerequisites: ARTS 231 and ARTS 202
ARTS 341 Painting II (3 Credit Hours)
An intensive studio course that builds on the perceptual and technical skills developed in ARTS 241 . Coursework includes a review and expansion of direct observational painting skills with exploration into the expressive potential of painting through thematically-driven projects.
Prerequisites: ARTS 241 and ARTS 331
ARTS 343 Techniques in Abstraction (3 Credit Hours)
This course serves to expose students to various techniques in contemporary abstraction. Students explore a range of strategies for producing both objective and non-objective abstract work using drawing and/or painting media.
Prerequisites: ARTS 341 or by permission of the instructor
ARTS 350 Advanced Printmaking (3 Credit Hours)
Further investigation of chosen print technique (screenprint, lithography, relief, or intaglio) with special attention to the implementation of color.
Prerequisites: ARTS 279 and any introductory printmaking course ( ARTS 254 , ARTS 257 , ARTS 258 , or ARTS 259 )
ARTS 351 Print II: The Hybrid Print (3 Credit Hours)
Students investigate the integration of traditional print media with digital prints, photographic techniques, and rapid prototyping technologies. Readings and discussions will explore the relationship between analog and digital media. Students choose a conceptual theme that will guide their work throughout the semester.
Prerequisites: ARTS 257 , ARTS 258 or ARTS 259 or permission of the instructor
ARTS 352 Print II: Medium Intensive (3 Credit Hours)
Students focus on a single print medium from Print I (Intaglio, Relief, Screenprint, Lithography, or Letterpress) for intensive study. Use of color, registration, and alternative techniques will be emphasized within a given medium. Students choose a conceptual theme that will guide their work throughout the semester.
Prerequisites: ARTS 257 , ARTS 258 or ARTS 259 or permission of the instructor
ARTS 361 Advanced Sculpture (3 Credit Hours)
Investigation involves the combination of various materials and construction techniques. Each student will improve their skills in fabrication to execute their research and concepts in object making and installation.
Prerequisites: ARTS 203 , ARTS 261 or permission of the instructor
ARTS 362 Ceramics Studio (3 Credit Hours)
This course is an introduction to the use of clay, also known as ceramics. It includes clay forming with pinch pots, slabs, coils and pottery wheels.
Prerequisites: by permission of instructor
ARTS 363 Intermediate Ceramics (3 Credit Hours)
Students will explore functional and sculptural techniques through handbuilding and wheel-throwing, as well as basic claybody, glaze and firing theory. Students will also develop a basic understanding of the historical and cultural aspects of ceramics.  The class includes glaze chemistry, firing procedures, ceramic history and contemporary ceramics.
Prerequisites: Permission of instructor
ARTS 368 Internship (1-3 Credit Hours)
A structured work experience involving aspects of design or craft, filmmaking, video, museum or gallery work, either with or without remuneration.  Criteria for evaluation will be determined by work supervisor and cooperating faculty advisor.
Prerequisites: approval by the department chair and Career Development Services is necessary prior to registration
ARTS 369 Practicum (1-3 Credit Hours)
A structured research experience, under the supervision of an art department faculty member. A paper evaluating/analyzing the research, a log of research progress, and satisfactory evaluation by the supervising faculty are required.
Prerequisites: approval by the department chair
ARTS 377 Extracurricular Studies (1-6 Credit Hours)
Extracurricular activities may be approved for credit based on objectives, criteria, and evaluative procedures as formally determined by the department and the student prior to the semester in which the activity is to take place.  Such credit is subject to review by the provost.
Prerequisites: approval by the department and the dean, in accordance with the policy on granting credit for extracurricular activities
ARTS 378 Extracurricular Studies (1-6 Credit Hours)
Extracurricular activities may be approved for credit based on objectives, criteria, and evaluative procedures as formally determined by the department and the student prior to the semester in which the activity is to take place.  Such credit is subject to review by the provost.
Prerequisites: approval by the department and the dean, in accordance with the policy on granting credit for extracurricular activities
ARTS 381 Weaving and Fibers: Intermediate (3 Credit Hours)
An overview of techniques related to pattern drafting, advanced loom and off-loom weaving, and fabric painting.
Prerequisites: ARTS 281 or permission of the instructor
ARTS 391 Intermediate Jewelry (3 Credit Hours)
This course will expand upon the fundamentals of design and metal fabrication techniques for jewelry. Working with precious and non-precious metals, students will learn traditional techniques including casting, stone setting and production processes. A series of structured assignments guide students as they transform their ideas into finished works. Solutions for projects are open to enable the student to explore their own aesthetic while mastering the outlined material. Lectures on historical, contemporary and cultural examples of jewelry inform and inspire students' work.
Prerequisites: ARTS 291 or permission of the instructor
ARTS 392 Blacksmithing (3 Credit Hours)
This course offers an introduction to the basic tools, materials and techniques used in forging, forming, hardening and tempering steel.  Exploration of form and process in working metal.
Prerequisites: ARTS 291 or permission of the instructor
ARTS 394 Intermediate Metalsmithing (3 Credit Hours)
This course will expand upon the fundamentals of design and metal fabrication techniques for small objects. Working with precious and non-precious metals, students learn traditional techniques including chase and repousse, raising and forming. A series of structured assignments guide students as they transform their ideas into finished works. Solutions for projects are open to enable the student to explore their own aesthetic while mastering the outlined material. Lectures on historical, contemporary and cultural examples of metalsmithing inform and inspire students' work.
Prerequisites: ARTS 291 or permission of the instructor
ARTS 395 Topics in Studio Art (3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics designed for non majors, or for elective credit within a major.  These courses will appear in the course schedule, and will be more fully described in information distributed to all academic advisors.
Prerequisites: appropriate survey or introductory course or permission of the instructor
ARTS 400 Senior Show (3 Credit Hours)
This is the capstone class for all students in the BFA program (except students in the graphic design concentration take ARTS 401). Focusing on the development and articulation of aesthetic vision and studio practice, students will identify key ideas and sources for their work. They will also clarify their methods and concepts to create a finished, exhibition quality project. The class also addresses professional installation, promotion, and documentation of finished work, culminating with an exhibition.
Prerequisites: Students must be in the final semester of major concentration
ARTS 411 Photography 3 (3 Credit Hours)
The course focuses on the photographic series examining reportage and contemporary narrative.  Students will work on developing a fully conceived photographic series on a theme developed through guided individual research.  Reading and discussion will provide students a critical framework in which to place their photographic imagery.
Prerequisites: ARTS 211 and ARTS 311 or permission of instructor
ARTS 412/512 Photo Seminar 1 (3 Credit Hours)
The first of a two-semester sequence of concentrated individual work.  Students will identify a topic and create a complete body of work culminating in the senior show, ARTS 400 .  Lectures, readings, discussion, critique, and field trips to develop the articulation of ideas and the clarification of purpose.
Prerequisites: ARTS 211 , ARTS 311 and ARTS 411 or permission of the instructor
ARTS 413/513 Photo Seminar 2 (3 Credit Hours)
This is the second in a two-semester sequence of concentrated individual work culminating in the senior show.  Through readings, discussion, critiques, field trips, and intense individual work, students will compile a body of work realizing their personal vision and articulate their ideas through the crafting of an artist statement.
Prerequisites: ARTS 211 , ARTS 311 , ARTS 411 and ARTS 412 or permission of the instructor
ARTS 421 Advanced Glass: Hot and Flame (3 Credit Hours)
This course is structured to provide instruction to glass forming, balanced with the history, criticism, and aesthetics of glass art.  It is an advanced course in the techniques of glassblowing and flame working. Lectures, demonstrations, and critiques will encourage students to consider both the technical and conceptual manifestations of this material.  In addition, the Chrysler Museum’s extensive contemporary and historical glass collection and interaction with visiting and resident glass artists will be utilized.  The course allows students to learn new techniques to advance to a higher level of art production.
Prerequisites: ARTS 203 , ARTS 221 and ARTS 321
ARTS 431/531 Drawing Studio (3 Credit Hours)
Further concentration on conceptual content and drawing skills, development of individual body of work exploring preferred concepts, subject matter, techniques, and media.  May be repeated for credit.
Prerequisites: ARTS 331
ARTS 432/532 Figure Drawing Anatomy (3 Credit Hours)
A study of visually important aspects of the structural, skeletal and muscular systems of the body.  Anatomical study will be related to drawing from the live model.
Prerequisites: ARTS 331 or permission of the instructor
ARTS 433/533 Figure Drawing/ Composition (3 Credit Hours)
This course places the emphasis on advanced composition using the figure as the central theme.  The figure's expressive potential, along with a study of historical responses to figure drawing, will be examined in depth.
Prerequisites: ARTS 432 / ARTS 532
ARTS 441 Advanced Painting and Drawing (3 Credit Hours)
An intensive studio course that builds upon skills developed in ARTS 331 and ARTS 341 . Students pursue various approaches to the development of pictorial space and investigate the connection between formal decision making, media use, and individual expression within their work.
Prerequisites: ARTS 341
ARTS 442/542 Painting and Drawing Studio (3 Credit Hours)
Students develop an individual body of work exploring preferred concepts, subject matter, techniques, and media in close consultation with faculty. Written proposal by students required at registration.
Prerequisites: ARTS 441 and ARTS 445
ARTS 445 Hybrid Approaches to Painting and Drawing (3 Credit Hours)
This course emphasizes hybrid approaches to contemporary drawing and painting including the integration of digital processes into studio practice and production. Students will be introduced to various applications and techniques regularly used in contemporary painting and drawing, including generating digital imagery, diorama construction and image compositing. Traditional and nontraditional media and subjects may be used to assist in the fulfillment of students’ analytical and expressive intentions.
Prerequisites: ARTS 341 or by permission of the instructor
ARTS 450/550 Printmaking III (3 Credit Hours)
Students create a body of personal work based on their research and interests. Readings, discussion, and presentations situate students’ practice within contemporary print discourses.
Prerequisites: ARTS 351 or ARTS 352 or permission of the instructor
ARTS 455/555 Letterpress Printmaking (3 Credit Hours)
A visual and literary investigation of language and wordplay using foundry and wood type and a Vandercook SP-20 proofing press.  Projects include expressive printed impressions of personal poetry and song lyric, political rant, and broadsides for entertainment or proselytizing.  A theme group project, such as a folio or a bound book, is usually assigned.
Prerequisites: ARTS 259 or permission of instructor
ARTS 456 2D Seminar (3 Credit Hours)
This course covers both theoretical and practical concerns within contemporary 2D art (painting, drawing, print. A combination of reading, writing, and critique develop and deepen the trajectory of students' creative practice.
Prerequisites: ARTS 450 or ARTS 441 or permission of the instructor
ARTS 461/561 Sculpture Studio (3 Credit Hours)
Experimental work reflecting individual initiative and attitude.
Prerequisites: ARTS 361 or ARTS 363 , and permission of the instructor
ARTS 463/563 Advanced Ceramics (3 Credit Hours)
An advanced course in the science and art of ceramics.  Students will engage in guided independent research, developing their own direction by investigating clay bodies, glazes, firing methods and contemporary ceramic art.
Prerequisites: ARTS 263 and ARTS 363
ARTS 469/569 Assemblage (3 Credit Hours)
Assemblage combines elements of various art and non-art media and materials. Lectures will be comprised of presentations about relevant artists, gallery and studio visits, and critiques.  Studio time allows students to explore personal directions in the medium.
Prerequisites: junior standing or permission of the instructor
ARTS 472/572 Art Therapy (3 Credit Hours)
This class is designed to initiate students from both studio art and non-studio backgrounds to the study of art therapy. It examines the history of art therapy in the United States, introduces the Expressive Therapies Continuum (ETC), and explores the application of art therapy techniques and their underlying rationales.
Prerequisites: Instructor permission required
ARTS 473/573 The Book (3 Credit Hours)
The book as a work of art.  Lecture will explore historical and technical aspects of book design and production.  Studio work will be devoted to the production of a series of books involving page design, paper selection, printing and binding.
Prerequisites: ARTS 202 , ARTS 279 , and junior standing or permission of the instructor
ARTS 481/581 Weaving and Fibers: Advanced (3 Credit Hours)
Advanced work in pattern drafting, loom techniques, off-loom weaving and fabric painting.
Prerequisites: ARTS 381
ARTS 491/591 Advanced Jewelry and Metalsmithing (3 Credit Hours)
This course offers further exploration and concentration on jewelry and metalsmithing techniques. Through readings, discussions, self-directed and self-determined projects, students will explore new methods and content to develop an individual body of work. Additional emphasis will be placed on developing supplemental portfolio materials. May be repeated once for credit.
ARTS 492 Wood Studio/Furniture Design (3 Credit Hours)
An exploration of concepts and techniques in wood sculpture and furniture design and fabrication.
Prerequisites: Junior standing
ARTS 493/593 Jewelry and Metalsmithing Studio (3 Credit Hours)
This course offers further exploration and concentration on jewelry and metalsmithing techniques. Through readings, discussions, self-directed and self-determined projects, students will explore new methods and content to develop an individual body of work. Additional emphasis will be placed on developing supplemental portfolio materials. May be repeated for credit once.
Prerequisites: ARTS 291 and either ARTS 391 or ARTS 393
ARTS 495/595 Topics in Studio Art (3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics designed to permit small groups of qualified students to work on studio projects of mutual interest.
Prerequisites: permission of the instructor
ARTS 497/597 Tutorial Work in Special Studio Topics (3 Credit Hours)
Independent investigation of a subject to be selected under the advisement of the instructor.  Conferences, papers, field trips, portfolios, or exhibitions as appropriate.
Prerequisites: senior standing and permission of the chief departmental advisor
ARTS 498 Tutorial Work in Special Studio Topics (3 Credit Hours)
Independent investigation of a subject to be selected under the advisement of the instructor.  Conferences, papers, field trips, portfolios, or exhibitions as appropriate.
Prerequisites: senior standing and permission of the chief departmental advisor
ARTS 512 Photo Seminar 1 (3 Credit Hours)
The first of a two-semester sequence of concentrated individual work.   Students will identify a topic and create a complete body of work.  Lectures, readings, discussion, critique, and field trips to develop the articulation of ideas and the clarification of purpose.
ARTS 513 Photo Seminar 2 (3 Credit Hours)
This is the second in a two-semester  sequence of concentrated individual work. Through readings, discussion, critiques, field trips, and intense individual work, students will compile a body of work realizing their personal vision and articulate their ideas through the crafting of an artist statement.
ARTS 531 Drawing Studio (3 Credit Hours)
Further concentration on conceptual content and drawing skills, development of individual body of work exploring preferred concepts, subject matter, techniques, and media.  May be repeated for credit.
ARTS 532 Figure Drawing Anatomy (3 Credit Hours)
A study of visually important aspects of the structural, skeletal and muscular systems of the body.  Anatomical study will be related to drawing from the live model.
ARTS 533 Figure Drawing/ Composition (3 Credit Hours)
This course places the emphasis on advanced composition using the figure as the central theme.  The figure's expressive potential, along with a study of historical responses to figure drawing, will be examined in depth.
Prerequisites: ARTS 532
ARTS 542 Painting and Drawing Studio (3 Credit Hours)
Students develop an individual body of work exploring preferred concepts, subject matter, techniques, and media in close consultation with faculty. Written proposal by students required at registration.
ARTS 550 Printmaking Studio (3 Credit Hours)
Experimental work in selected print media.
ARTS 555 Letterpress Printmaking (3 Credit Hours)
A visual and literary investigation of language and wordplay using foundry and wood type and a Vandercook SP-20 proofing press.  Projects include expressive printed impressions of personal poetry and song lyric, political rant, and broadsides for entertainment or proselytizing.  A theme group project such as a folio or a bound book, is usually assigned.
ARTS 561 Sculpture Studio (3 Credit Hours)
Experimental work reflecting individual initiative and attitude.
ARTS 563 Advanced Ceramics (3 Credit Hours)
An advanced course in the science and art of ceramics.  Students will engage in guided independent research, developing their own direction by investigating clay bodies, glazes, firing methods and contemporary ceramic art.
ARTS 569 Assemblage (3 Credit Hours)
Assemblage combines elements of various art and non-art media and materials. Lectures will be comprised of presentations about relevant artists, gallery and studio visits, and critiques.  Studio time allows students to explore personal directions in the medium.
ARTS 572 Art Therapy (3 Credit Hours)
This class is designed to initiate students from both studio art and non-studio backgrounds to the study of art therapy. It examines the history of art therapy in the United States, introduces the Expressive Therapies Continuum (ETC), and explores the application of art therapy techniques and their underlying rationales.
ARTS 573 The Book (3 Credit Hours)
The book as a work of art.  Lecture will explore historical and technical aspects of book design and production.  Studio work will be devoted to the production of a series of books involving page design, paper selection, printing and binding.
ARTS 581 Crafts III: Fibers (3 Credit Hours)
Advanced work in pattern drafting, loom techniques, off-loom weaving and fabric painting.
ARTS 591 Advanced Jewelry and Metalsmithing (3 Credit Hours)
This course offers further exploration and concentration on jewelry and metalsmithing techniques. Through readings, discussions, self-directed and self-determined projects, students will explore new methods and content to develop an individual body of work. Additional emphasis will be placed on developing supplemental portfolio materials. May be repeated once for credit.
Prerequisites: Permission of instructor
ARTS 593 Jewelry and Metalsmithing Studio (3 Credit Hours)
This course offers further exploration and concentration on jewelry and metalsmithing techniques. Through readings, discussions, self-directed and self-determined projects, students will explore new methods and content to develop an individual body of work. Additional emphasis will be placed on developing supplemental portfolio materials. May be repeated for credit once.
ARTS 595 Topics in Studio Art (3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics designed to permit small groups of qualified students to work on studio projects of mutual interest.
Prerequisites: permission of the instructor
ARTS 597 Tutorial Work in Special Studio Topics (3 Credit Hours)
Independent investigation of a subject to be selected under the advisement of the instructor.
ARTS 668 Internship (3 Credit Hours)
A structured work experience involving aspects of art, design or craft; film or video making; and/or museum/gallery work.
ARTS 695 Graduate Seminar:  Special Topics in Contemporary Art (3 Credit Hours)
Topics to be specified in the class schedule.  Intensive critical investigations of selected aspects of the visual arts which focus on the role of the artist in contemporary urban society.  May be repeated for credit as topics vary.
ARTS 697 Independent Study (3-6 Credit Hours)
Supervised individual inquiry in specific studio projects relating to the areas of major interest.
Prerequisites: permission of graduate program director required
ARTS 698 Graduate Studio (3-6 Credit Hours)
Supervised individual inquiry in specific studio projects relating to the areas of major interest.
Prerequisites: permission of graduate program director required
ARTS 700 Directed Field Experience (3-6 Credit Hours)
Intern experiences in museums, community centers and arts programs, teaching assistantships, special apprenticeships, and field projects under the supervision of graduate faculty.  Required of all M.F.A. candidates.
Prerequisites: permission of graduate program director required
ARTS 701 Thesis Exhibition (3 Credit Hours)
Required of M.F.A. candidates.  Course requirements to be determined by the student's advisory committee.  Final grade to be determined by the student's thesis review committee.
Prerequisites: permission of graduate program director required
ARTS 702 Documentation (3 Credit Hours)
Studio work in preparation for required graduate exhibition.  Public exhibition to be approved by the student's advisory committee and must be accompanied by final review.  Documentation may be required.  Required of all M.A. and M.F.A.  candidates.  Final grade to be determined by the student's thesis review committee.
Prerequisites: permission of graduate program director required
ARTS 797 Graduate Studio (3-6 Credit Hours)
Supervised individual inquiry in specific studio projects relating to areas of major interest.  Individual studio spaces will be assigned.
Prerequisites: permission of graduate program director required
ARTS 798 Graduate Studio (3-6 Credit Hours)
Supervised individual inquiry in specific studio projects relating to areas of major interest.  Individual studio spaces will be assigned.
Prerequisites: permission of graduate program director required
ARTS 999 Doctoral Graduate Credit (1 Credit Hour)
This course is a pass/fail course doctoral students may take to maintain active status after successfully passing the candidacy examination.  All doctoral students are required to be registered for at least one graduate credit hour every semester until their graduation.
Search catalog
