Data Science (DASC)
DASC 596 Topics in Data Science (3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics designed to permit small groups of qualified students to work on subjects of mutual interest which, due to their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly. These courses will appear in the course schedule and will be more fully described in information distributed to academic advisors.
DASC 597 Independent Study (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor. Conferences and papers as appropriate.
Prerequisites: approval of the program coordinator
DASC 620 Introduction to Data Science and Analytics (3 Credit Hours)
This course will explore data science as a burgeoning field. Students will learn fundamental principles and techniques that data scientists employ to mine data. They will investigate real life examples where data is used to guide assessments and draw conclusions. This course will introduce software and computing resources available to a data scientist to process, visualize, and model different types of data including big data.  Cross-listed with CS 620 .
DASC 690 Data Science Capstone Project (3 Credit Hours)
The culminating course in the proposed MS in Data Science and Analytics degree program will bring students together with faculty and external partners. In consultation with a faculty advisor and a business or industry or government representative, students will be required to develop a project that aims to solve a data science/analytics problem in a real-world business, industry, or government setting. Faculty and business/industry/government representatives will serve as external mentors for the students during this experience. Note that an external mentor is not mandatory but encouraged.
Pre- or corequisite: DASC 620 / CS 620 , CS 624 , CS 625 , and STAT 603
DASC 771 Fundamentals of Interpretable Machine Learning and Explainable AI (3 Credit Hours)
Laws in many countries and states within the U.S. require that predictive models impacting humans be accompanied by an understandable interpretation, yet many such models are based on so called black box models that can’t be easily interpreted or explained. This course will enable students to produce explanations and interpretations for advanced ML and AI algorithms. It will review the state of the science methods for interpretable ML and explainable AI, including graphical and contextual approaches as well as model agnostic and model specific methods for generating understandable explanations and interpretations.  The course will also introduce the concepts of algorithmic bias and model fairness as they relate to explanation and understanding.
Prerequisites: BDA 511 /611, or CS 522 , or CS 580
DASC 795 Topics in Data Science (3 Credit Hours)
Provides the advanced student with an opportunity to study and investigate a variety of topics in the field of data science.
DASC 871 Fundamentals of Interpretable Machine Learning and Explainable AI (3 Credit Hours)
Laws in many countries and states within the U.S. require that predictive models impacting humans be accompanied by an understandable interpretation, yet many such models are based on so called black box models that can’t be easily interpreted or explained. This course will enable students to produce explanations and interpretations for advanced ML and AI algorithms. It will review the state of the science methods for interpretable ML and explainable AI, including graphical and contextual approaches as well as model agnostic and model specific methods for generating understandable explanations and interpretations. The course will also introduce the concepts of algorithmic bias and model fairness as they relate to explanation and understanding.
Prerequisites: BDA 511 /611, or CS 522 , or CS 580
DASC 895 Topics in Data Science (3 Credit Hours)
Provides the advanced student with an opportunity to study and investigate a variety of topics in the field of data science.
Search catalog
