2023-2028 Strategic Plan
Our Mission
Old Dominion University (ODU) is a preeminent public research university located in Coastal Virginia. Our world-class faculty fosters dynamic on-campus and global online learning for undergraduate and graduate students that enriches their lives, promotes insightful and perceptive leadership, and motivates the pursuit of excellence in dedicated fields and professions. We collaborate with strategic partners to address challenges and propose solutions that impact the economy, environment, health and wellness, and social justice. In pursuit of equity and inclusion, ODU provides opportunities for educational, artistic, and professional growth to our diverse Monarch community.
Strategic Plan
President's Reports
A History of Transformation
Old Dominion University features a diverse and engaged student body across 175 programs on campus and 100 online. The University today contributes over $2.6 billion to Virginia’s annual economy. Significantly, 54% of students come from underrepresented ethnic groups.
A Message From President Hemphill
President Brian O. Hemphill, Ph.D.
Through embracing a culture of innovation, I am pleased to share the incredible work of our dedicated campus in charting a clear course for the future engagement and success of Old Dominion University. This bold plan is truly a reflection of our students, faculty, staff, alumni, and friends, who have a lasting legacy of making a significant difference on our campus, in the community, across the Commonwealth, and beyond!
For more than a year, campus stakeholders engaged in a comprehensive process to develop a five-year strategic plan, thereby determining both the short-term focus and long-term success of our institution, which – above all else – will be dedicated to students. With nearly 300 individuals serving on a total of 12 groups, 30 goals and 103 strategies were carefully developed across seven focal areas.
The title, “Forward-Focused: Where Innovation Meets Possibilities,” is a direct reflection of the bold and innovative goals and strategies that were brought forth by those directly involved in thinking and rethinking the future of our great institution. As this important work has generated great excitement and opportunity for Monarchs, the future has boundless possibilities!
With Monarch Pride,​ Brian O. Hemphill, Ph.D. President
Community Commitment
Monarchs have demonstrated a long-standing commitment to seizing every opportunity and responding to any and all challenges. Old Dominion University is proud to serve as a home to students, faculty, and staff who care deeply for others.
Explore Our Monarch Momentum
Process
With the University focused on charting a clear course for its future and continued success, a group of nearly 300 stakeholders embarked on an inclusive and intensive year-long planning process, leading to this comprehensive document.
Follow Our Process
Core Values
Old Dominion is truly a campus of the community, for the community, and by the community. We are committed to wellness with the mind, body, and spirit of all Monarchs in clear and constant focus! Our Core Values are central to the Monarch experience and how we continue forward.
Learn Our Values
Goals
ODU's five-year strategic plan is built around seven key areas. Together, the focal areas lay the groundwork for the University’s development and growth during the next five years.
