CRJS 215S Introduction to Criminology (3 Credit Hours)
Introduction to criminology as a science, including the study of crime, criminals, and society's response to them.
CRJS 222 The Criminal Justice System (3 Credit Hours)
A study of social response to criminal behavior as cases move through the machinery of justice.  Describes the interdependence of crime statistics, law enforcement, criminal courts, and correctional procedures for purposes of analyzing the entire system.
CRJS 226S Honors: Introduction to Criminology (3 Credit Hours)
Open only to students in the Honors College.  Special honors section of CRJS 215S .
CRJS 262 Law and the Criminal Justice System (3 Credit Hours)
The course covers both substantive and procedural law related to the definitions, investigations, processing and punishment of crimes.  It is meant to provide the students with an overall understanding of the articulation between law and the criminal justice system.
CRJS 310 Cybercriminology: Foundations (3 Credit Hours)
This course will provide students with an overview of computer-related crimes and how law enforcement officials investigate them. The course begins by describing the environment that has been created through information and communication technologies, and how this new environment facilitates different types of behavior. The course then moves into defining and describing the different types of computer-related crimes, the techniques used by officials, and the legal issues inherent in combating cybercrime.
Prerequisites: CRJS 215S
CRJS 316 Juvenile Delinquency (3 Credit Hours)
A study of juvenile misbehavior in the contemporary community, its nature, extent, treatment, and control, including juvenile court procedure and philosophy.
Prerequisites: CRJS 215S or SOC 201S or permission of instructor
CRJS 317 Correctional Institutions (3 Credit Hours)
Examines the history of prisons and jails, their formal and informal organization, their effects on individuals, and issues and philosophies of penal reform.
Prerequisites: CRJS 215S or CRJS 222 or permission of the instructor
CRJS 318 Probation, Parole and Community-Based Corrections (3 Credit Hours)
Examines the history, law, administration and social setting of probation, parole and other noninstitutional sentencing alternatives.  Also explores nontraditional alternatives to criminal adjudication such as arbitration and diversion programs.
Prerequisites: CRJS 215S or permission of the instructor
CRJS 319 Public and Private Security (3 Credit Hours)
The organization of security systems in public and private agencies and institutions.
Prerequisites: CRJS 215S or permission of the instructor
CRJS 320 Law and Social Control (3 Credit Hours)
Examines the creation, use and effectiveness of formal and informal mechanisms of social control for both criminal and noncriminal deviant behavior.  Cross-cultural comparisons are given special emphasis.
Prerequisites: CRJS 215S or permission of the instructor
CRJS 321 Death Penalty (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the historical and philosophical foundations of the death penalty in the United States, the Supreme Court case precedent that has effectively narrowed its modern application, and the contentious issues that surround America’s most severe punishment. Topics will include the moral/legal arguments surrounding the death penalty; the legal process of capital cases; the racial, ethnic, socioeconomic, and gender disparities that exist in death sentencing and executions; recent trends and scholarly evidence related to capital punishment; reasons for continued support; and the movement toward abolition.
Prerequisites: CRJS 215S or permission of instructor
CRJS 323 Police in American Society (3 Credit Hours)
Examines the role of police in a free society. Police functions, subculture, community relations and decision making receive special attention.  Problems such as police corruption, violence and the methods by which society attempts to control police behavior are also discussed.
Prerequisites: CRJS 215S or CRJS 222 or permission of the instructor
CRJS 325 Women and Crime (3 Credit Hours)
Examines the role of women as offenders, victims and employees of the criminal justice system. Theories of female criminality and the treatment of female offenders are explored.  Attention is given to the victimization of women, specifically wife abuse and rape, problems of minority women, and the impact of current legislation.
Prerequisites: CRJS 215S or permission of the instructor
CRJS 326 LGBTQ People, Crime, and Justice (3 Credit Hours)
Learning appropriate terminology to discuss LGBTQ individuals, as well as a review of the social issues facing these populations, including damaging cultural stereotypes. Critically exploring the history of interactions between LGBTQ communities and agents of formal control, such as schools and the police, including responses to bullying and bias crimes. Interrogating how changing political and social contexts affect policy regarding formal responses to LGBTQ communities.
Prerequisites: SOC 201S or CRJS 215S
CRJS 340 White-Collar Crime (3 Credit Hours)
This course will describe and explain corporate, state-corporate, government (state) crime and crimes of globalization from sociological and criminological perspectives.  Although the course will deal with the general topic of white collar crime, the specific focus will be on organizational offenders such as business corporations, government, state agencies and international finance organizations.
Prerequisites: CRJS 215S
CRJS 344 Social Science and Crime Mapping (3 Credit Hours)
A critical exploration of applying geographic information system (GIS) to view, understand, question, interpret, and visualize social science and crime data that reveal relationships, patterns, and trends. Students will learn to 1) frame a research question or hypothesis from a location-based perspective; 2) collect, create and examine geographically referenced demographic, social, and criminological data; 3) learn to use GIS mapping software to visualize, manage and analyze this data in order to investigate the relationship between geographic, demographic, social and criminological variables; and 4) arrive upon decisions and conclusions and communicate these via the creation of publishable maps.
Prerequisites: SOC 201S or CRJS 215S or permission of the instructor
CRJS 345 Organized Crime: A Survey of Domestic and World-Wide Organized Crime Activities (3 Credit Hours)
A broad survey of the history and consequences of organized crime in the United States and the world. Special focus will be directed at the economic, social and developmental effects of organized criminal activities.
Prerequisites: CRJS 215S , CRJS 222 , or CRJS 262
CRJS 348 Film and Society (3 Credit Hours)
Sociological examination of film as an art form, an industry, and a social institution. Major topics include socialization through film, how one’s unique socialization affects the film experience, social inequality (racism/ethnocentrism/sexism/ageism) as exhibited in film, and as they occur within the film industry, film as an educational tool, gender roles as exhibited in film and perpetuated within the film industry, film and copycat crime, crime in the film industry, portrayal of crime in film, international cinema and globalization.
Prerequisites: SOC 201S or permission of the instructor
CRJS 350 Victimology (3 Credit Hours)
Examination of the multifaceted problem of criminal victimization.  Focuses on defining victimization, the incidents of victimization, social characteristics of victims, treatment of victims in the criminal justice system, and efforts designed to alleviate the consequences of victimization.
Prerequisites: SOC 201S or CRJS 215S or six hours of social science perspective or permission of the instructor
CRJS 355 Crime and the Community (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on the effect of crime on communities and the ways in which communities affect crime.  The class considers both ethnographic community studies as well as larger-scale demographic analysis.
Prerequisites: CRJS 215S or SOC 201S or permission of the instructor
CRJS 356 Gangs (3 Credit Hours)
This course seeks to evaluate issues central to the study of modern gangs, such as gang definitions, prevalence, proliferation, migration, formation, histories, and gang/gang member characteristics. Another objective is to understand why and how young people both join and leave their gangs and explore how gang structure and organization can influence gang and gang member behavior, including their involvement in violence, other illegal acts, their victimization, and the gendered experiences of female gang members. Students will also review assess policies and efforts regarding gang prevention, intervention, and suppression and distinguish between stereotypes/myths and realities about gangs and gang members based on empirical research and theory.
Prerequisites: SOC 201S or CRJS 215S
CRJS 368 Internship (1-6 Credit Hours)
This course allows students to volunteer to work in an agency related to their major.  Students must volunteer for 50 hours per course credit.
Prerequisites: Approval by the department internship director
CRJS 370 State Crime (3 Credit Hours)
This course explores state crime from a sociological and criminological perspective. It examines historical and current cases of governmental crime at home and abroad. It also explores the intertwinement of states with other states, corporations, and, when applicable, international financial institutions as well as their roles in facilitating or constraining acts of state crime. Finally, the class discusses the problems of control, domestically and internationally.
Prerequisites: CRJS 215S or permission of the instructor
CRJS 375 Crime Prevention (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides an introduction to the approaches and practices of crime prevention. In addition, the course discusses primary, secondary, and tertiary crime prevention measures aimed at reducing or eliminating crime. Finally, the course addresses research and information on many aspects of crime prevention, including the physical environment and crime, neighborhood crime prevention, and crime in schools.
Prerequisites: CRJS 215S or permission of the instructor
CRJS 395 Topics in Criminal Justice (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics designed for nonmajors or for elective credit within a major. These courses will appear in the course schedule, and will be more fully described in information distributed to academic advisors.
Prerequisites: CRJS 215S or permission of the instructor
CRJS 396 Topics in Criminal Justice (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics designed for nonmajors or for elective credit within a major. These courses will appear in the course schedule, and will be more fully described in information distributed to all academic advisors.
Prerequisites: CRJS 215S or permission of the instructor
CRJS 401 Understanding Violence (3 Credit Hours)
Examines a variety of forms of violence from suicide, child abuse, rape and family violence, terrorism, torture, death squads and the death penalty and hate violence.  Explores the circumstances, rationalizations, patterns, explanations and effects on survivors.
Prerequisites: CRJS 215S or SOC 201S or permission of instructor
CRJS 403 Violence in the World of Children (3 Credit Hours)
This child-centered course examines the interaction of adults in violent conflict with the world of children, children's experience of violence and its meaning in the lives of children.  Topics include: valuing children, violence toward children in culture, families, and schools; child physical and sexual abuse and neglect; gangs, violent communities and children and war.  The effects of childhood experiences of violence, children's coping with violence, and alternatives to violence are also developed.
Prerequisites: SOC 201S or CRJS 215S or six hours in human behavior or permission of the instructor
CRJS 404 Law and Digital Forensics (3 Credit Hours)
This course will focus on the intersection between digital forensics and the criminal justice system, namely how digital forensics is understood and applied to key criminal justice, constitutional and statutory considerations within the criminal justice system.  Students will explore such topics as the nature and types of cybercrime; search and seizure principles in the digital world; finding, handling and maintaining chain of custody of digital evidence; interviewing individuals relating to digital evidence and related activities; and testifying in court about digital evidence matters.
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of instructor
CRJS 406 Cyber Law (3 Credit Hours)
This course tackles two major cyber law subjects. The first part of the course examines various U.S. laws and legal considerations that impact the digital and cyberspace worlds from traditional civil, and to a lesser extent, traditional criminal perspectives. The second part will familiarize cyber operations professionals about the extent of and limitations on their authorities to ensure operations in cyberspace are in compliance with U.S. law, regulations, directives and policies. The course will also introduce students to miscellaneous cybersecurity topics such as the Federal Acquisition Requirements. Cross-listed with CYSE 406 and CPD 406 .
Prerequisites: CRJS 262 or junior standing
CRJS 407 Violence Against Children Internationally (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on the research on child maltreatment abuse internationally, in particular on the most common types of child abuse and neglect—i.e., perpetrated by parents, family members.  The negative effects of child abuse and neglect are associated subsequently with every social problem from poverty, teenage motherhood, substance abuse, violent crime, domestic violence, and mental health problems, to ill-health—from cancer to diabetes.
Prerequisites: SOC 201S or CRJS 215S
CRJS 408 Children's Rights and the Law (3 Credit Hours)
A study of the law concerning children from a children's rights perspective. The rights of children in the US will be compared to other nations with special emphasis being placed on the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child.
Prerequisites: SOC 201S OR CRJS 215S or related social science Way of Knowing or permission of the instructor
CRJS 409 Crime and Computer Applications (3 Credit Hours)
The purpose of this interdisciplinary course is to introduce students to the ways in which computers are involved in the commission and the investigation of crime. Students will learn the fundamentals of cryptography and steganography and the tools used to perform these activities. Students will also use forensic software to identify, gather, and verify relevant digital evidence. Cross-listed with CYSE 409 .
Prerequisites: CRJS 310 or permission of the instructor
CRJS 410 Correctional Treatment (3 Credit Hours)
Methods and programs which attempt to correct the behaviors of juvenile delinquents and adult criminal offenders are explored.  Treatment strategies employed in both community and institutional settings are examined.  Techniques of classification and the role of the correctional worker are also discussed.
Prerequisites: CRJS 215S or CRJS 222 or permission of the instructor
CRJS 415 Courtroom As a Social System (3 Credit Hours)
An overview of the role of all of the actors in the American courtroom, the interaction of these actors and the effect of social forces on their behavior.  Includes prosecutor, plaintiff and defense lawyers, judges, juries, eye witnesses, expert witnesses, and court staff.
Prerequisites: CRJS 222 or permission of the instructor
CRJS 416 The American Jury (3 Credit Hours)
A review of the literature, law and practical materials that cover the American jury system from the creation of the master list through the verdict.  Includes history, social context and jury selection.
Prerequisites: CRJS 222 or permission of the instructor
CRJS 418 Crime, Society, and the Media (3 Credit Hours)
A critical exploration of media portrayals of crime and criminal justice.  News and entertainment genres are examined.  Connections between the mass media and crime, culture, politics, society, and individual behavior receive special attention.
Prerequisites: CRJS 215S or CRJS 222 or permission of the instructor
CRJS 419 Animals and Society (3 Credit Hours)
This is a class about the role of nonhuman animals in society. Animals are used to entertain, to do work, to provide companionship, to provide food, and more. In this class, we discuss the causes and consequences of both individual and institutional animal abuse. Society's relation to wildlife is also an important component and includes poaching, sport and trophy hunting, and society's reaction to wolves, coyotes, and wild horses in the West. Cross-listed with SOC 419 .
Prerequisites: Any human behavior (S) course, such as SOC 201S , CRJS 215S , PSYC 201S , COMM 200S , or permission of instructor
CRJS 421/521 Deviant Behavior (3 Credit Hours)
A study of various definitions and forms of deviant behavior, theoretical explanations of causes of deviant behavior, and the impact of deviant behavior on society and the individual.
Prerequisites: SOC 201S or CRJS 215S or permission of the instructor
CRJS 423 Public Policy in Criminal Justice (3 Credit Hours)
A study of the nature, development, and utilization of public policy within agencies of the criminal justice system. Topics include policy formulation, constraints on policy makers, influence of constituencies, and the role of research information. Case studies of issues such as crime control, prison overcrowding, police use of deadly force, the death penalty and parole guidelines will be undertaken.
Prerequisites: CRJS 215S
CRJS 424 Juvenile Justice: Issues, Policy, and Practice (3 Credit Hours)
This course will provide an overview of significant policy issues in contemporary juvenile justice. The first objective of the course is to examine the nature, extent, treatment and control of juvenile delinquency. The second objective of the course is to discuss the history of juvenile justice policy reform and evidence-based practices. Third, the course will identify and analyze a number of key juvenile justice policy issues, including: mental health, gender disparities, disproportionate minority contact (DMC), trauma, adult transfer and certification, as well as policies and practices for preventing and responding to delinquency.
Prerequisites: CRJS 215S
CRJS 426W/526 Criminological Theory (3 Credit Hours)
An in-depth study of the major theoretical issues in criminology.  Deals extensively with issues of crime causation.  This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: Senior standing, CRJS 215S , and grade of C or better in ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C , or permission of the instructor
CRJS 427/527 Gender-Based Violence (3 Credit Hours)
This course takes an expansive and intersectional approach to studying various forms of gender-based violence, from the interpersonal to the systemic, institutional, and cultural. Prevalence, risk factors, theoretical explanations, and legal remedies related to topics such as intimate partner violence, sexual assault on college campuses, gender-based violence in the military, sexual violence against undocumented immigrants, commercial sexual exploitation, and racism and reproductive health will be examined.
Prerequisites: SOC 201S or CRJS 215S or other human behavior course or permission of instructor
CRJS 430 Homicide (3 Credit Hours)
This course explores the topic  of homicide in the U.S.  It includes a discussion of the types of homicide, historical patterns and trends, and characteristics of offenders and victims.  A variety of theoretical frameworks are utilized to examine homicide at micro and macro levels.  In-depth examination of specific types of homicide is included.
Prerequisites: SOC 201S or CRJS 215S or another human behavior course
CRJS 431 Serial Offenders (3 Credit Hours)
This course explores the topic of serial offenders, also referred to as repeat offenders, recidivists, and career criminals.  The course begins with an overview and discussion of patterns of crime, followed by a discussion of relevant theoretical perspectives.  We also discuss profiling and the role it can play in the investigation of serial crimes.  Next, we move into modules devoted to specific types of crime (arson, rape, homicide, etc.), and discuss the research on serial offenders in each group.   Finally, prevention, as well as social policy issues, are addressed.
Prerequisites: SOC 201S or CRJS 215S
CRJS 436 Capstone Research Project (3 Credit Hours)
Students work in groups to plan, design, and carry out a research project.  Final papers which report the results for the study are presented in a formal research seminar.  The projects reflect knowledge gained from undergraduate work and training received in STAT 130M and SOC 337 .
Prerequisites: Senior standing, STAT 130M and SOC 337
CRJS 441/541 Drugs and Society (3 Credit Hours)
The study of sociological and social-psychological explanations of drug-using behaviors and of legal and medical control of drugs.  Topics include changes in the legal status of drugs, cross-cultural and historical variations in the control of drugs, and social epidemiology of drug use in contemporary society.
Prerequisites: SOC 201S or CRJS 215S
CRJS 444 Community Justice (3 Credit Hours)
This is a service learning course designed to study how the emerging field of community justice, a neighborhood-based strategy, can reduce crime and improve public safety by investing in social, human and cultural capital.
Prerequisites: SOC 201S or CRJS 215S
CRJS 445 Workplace Law and Society (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the laws of the workplace from a sociological and issue-driven approach considering two perspectives – both employer and employee. Relevant laws are identified, explored and made relevant through examples of their application in real-world situations. Sometimes the wisdom of these laws will be challenged; students will be encouraged to raise questions about a law’s utility, justice or fairness, whether in principle or in application.
Prerequisites: Junior standing
CRJS 448 Women, Sex Discrimination and the Law (3 Credit Hours)
This course introduces students to legal issues which specifically affect women and examines historical attitudes that have been used to justify differential treatment of women.  It explores various legal approaches used to achieve equal protection under the law and examines a variety of specific topics such as:  the equal protection analysis; Title VII and Title IX and their relationship to sex discrimination; affirmative action; and reproductive freedom.
Prerequisites: CRJS 215S or permission of the instructor
CRJS 450/550 Blacks, Crime and Justice (3 Credit Hours)
Examines historical and contemporary theories and research on African-Americans, criminal behavior and the administration of justice.  Selected topics will include African-American perspectives, the death penalty, victimization, police brutality, and justice systems in Africa and the Caribbean.
Prerequisites: CRJS 215S and CRJS 222 or permission of the instructor
CRJS 451 Race, Ethnicity, Crime and Justice (3 Credit Hours)
This course will examine the intersectionality of race, ethnicity, crime, justice and the operation of the criminal justice system and will critically assess controversial issues surrounding race, ethnicity, crime, and justice. Students will discuss contemporary social justice issues as they relate to race, ethnicity, crime, and justice. The theoretical frameworks that explain the intersection between race, ethnicity, crime and justice will be examined. The course will also investigate the broad range of policy issues and recommendations impacting communities of color and the administration of criminal and social justice.
Prerequisites: CRJS 215S or SOC 201S
CRJS 452 Diversity in Criminal Justice Organizations (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the impact of diversity, culture, and ethnic origin in criminal justice organizations.  The course is designed to better prepare students to meet the challenge of diversity in criminal justice organizations.
Prerequisites: SOC 201S or CRJS 215S or permission of instructor
CRJS 462/562 Substantive Criminal Law (3 Credit Hours)
This course deals with the major substantive concepts involved in American criminal law, including development of criminal law, elements of criminal liability, defenses against criminal responsibility, and descriptions and definitions of specific offenses.
Prerequisites: CRJS 215S or CRJS 222 or permission of the instructor
CRJS 475/575 Criminal Justice Systems Around the World (3 Credit Hours)
The study of criminal justice systems around the world in order to understand how criminal behavior is defined and responded to in various cultures.  Cultural differences will be highlighted in order to recognize that definitions of and responses to crimes closely reflect the cultures in which they exist.
Prerequisites: CRJS 215S or CRJS 222 or permission of the instructor
CRJS 494 Entrepreneurship in Sociology/Criminal Justice (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to help students enhance their personal and professional development through innovation guided by faculty members and professionals. It offers students an opportunity to integrate disciplinary theory and knowledge through developing a nonprofit program, product, business, or other initiative. The real-world experiences that entrepreneurships provide will help students understand how academic knowledge leads to transformations, innovations, and solutions to different types of problems. The course can be delivered either as an independent project for individual students or as group projects similar to those sometimes offered in topics courses.
Prerequisites: junior standing
CRJS 495/595 Topics in Criminal Justice (3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics designed to permit small groups of qualified students to work on subjects of mutual interest which, due to their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly.  These courses will appear in the course schedule, and will be more fully described in information distributed to academic advisors.
Prerequisites: CRJS 215S or permission of the instructor
CRJS 496/596 Topics in Criminal Justice (3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics designed to permit small groups of qualified students to work on subjects of mutual interest which, due to their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly.  These courses will appear in the course schedule, and will be more fully described in information distributed to academic advisors.
Prerequisites: CRJS 215S or permission of the instructor
CRJS 497/597 Independent Study (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor.  Conferences and papers as appropriate.
Prerequisites: Senior standing and approval of the department chair
CRJS 498/598 Tutorial Work in Special Topics in Criminal Justice (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor.  Conferences and papers as appropriate.
Prerequisites: Senior standing and approval of the department chair
CRJS 521 Deviant Behavior (3 Credit Hours)
A study of various definitions and forms of deviant behavior, theoretical explanations of causes of deviant behavior, and the impact of deviant behavior on society and the individual.
CRJS 526 Criminological Theory (3 Credit Hours)
An in-depth study of the major theoretical issues in criminology.  Deals extensively with issues of crime causation.
CRJS 527 Gender-Based Violence (3 Credit Hours)
This course takes an expansive and intersectional approach to studying various forms of gender-based violence, from the interpersonal to the systemic, institutional, and cultural. Prevalence, risk factors, theoretical explanations, and legal remedies related to topics such as intimate partner violence, sexual assault on college campuses, gender-based violence in the military, sexual violence against undocumented immigrants, commercial sexual exploitation, and racism and reproductive health will be examined.
CRJS 541 Drugs and Society (3 Credit Hours)
The study of sociological and social psychological explanations of drug-using behaviors and of legal and medical control of drugs.  Topics include changes in the legal status of drugs, cross-cultural and historical variations in the control of drugs, and social epidemiology of drug use in contemporary society.
CRJS 550 Blacks, Crime and Justice (3 Credit Hours)
Examines historical and contemporary theories and research on African-Americans, criminal behavior and the administration of justice.  Selected topics will include African-American perspectives, the death penalty, victimization, police brutality, and justice systems in Africa and the Caribbean.
CRJS 562 Substantive Criminal Law (3 Credit Hours)
This course deals with the major substantive concepts involved in American criminal law, including development of criminal law, elements of criminal liability, defenses against criminal responsibility, and descriptions and definitions of specific offenses.
CRJS 575 Criminal Justice Systems Around the World (3 Credit Hours)
The study of criminal justice systems around the world in order to understand how criminal behavior is defined and responded to in various cultures.  Cultural differences will be highlighted in order to recognize that definitions of and responses to crimes closely reflect the cultures in which they exist.
CRJS 595 Topics in Criminal Justice (3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics designed to permit small groups of qualified students to work on subjects of mutual interest which, due to their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly.  These courses will appear in the course schedule, and will be more fully described in information distributed to academic advisors.
CRJS 596 Topics in Criminal Justice (3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics designed to permit small groups of qualified students to work on subjects of mutual interest which, due to their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly.  These courses will appear in the course schedule, and will be more fully described in information distributed to academic advisors.
CRJS 597 Tutorial Work in Special Topics in Criminal Justice (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor.  Conferences and papers as appropriate.
CRJS 598 Tutorial Work in Special Topics in Criminal Justice (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor.  Conferences and papers as appropriate.
CRJS 620 Criminological Theory (3 Credit Hours)
An in-depth study of the major theoretical issues in criminology.  The course deals extensively with issues of crime causation, the way theory shapes and informs the study of crime and related social issues, and the relationship between theory, research, and practice.
CRJS 625 The Administration of Criminal Justice (3 Credit Hours)
An analysis of the criminal justice system with an emphasis on the decision-making responsibilities of its officials.
CRJS 627 Violence Against Women (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the many ways in which violence against women functions as an agent of social control.  Violence is viewed on a continuum in order to determine how a variety of acts contribute to the subordination of women.  Specific types of violence are explored including:  wife assault, rape, incest, sexual harassment and pornography.
CRJS 663 Corrections (3 Credit Hours)
A study of society's response to crime through its use of institutional and noninstitutional corrections.  Topics include inmate culture, correction officer behavior and community corrections programs.
CRJS 668 Internship (3 Credit Hours)
Students gain first-hand experience in professional settings which are deemed appropriate given their academic background and career objectives.  Students are required to complete a research project that corresponds to their specific internship placement
Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor
CRJS 695 Topics in Criminal Justice (3 Credit Hours)
Advanced seminars on selected topics in criminal justice.  Topics will vary by semester.
CRJS 696 Topics in Criminal Justice (3 Credit Hours)
Advanced seminars on selected topics in criminal justice.  Topics will vary by semester.
CRJS 697 Independent Study in Special Topics in Criminal Justice (3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor.  Conferences and papers as appropriate.
Prerequisites: Approval of the department chair
CRJS 698 Independent Study in Special Topics in Criminal Justice (3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor.  Conferences and papers as appropriate.
Prerequisites: Approval of the department chair
CRJS 699 Thesis (3-9 Credit Hours)
Thesis hours.
CRJS 998 Master's Graduate Credit (1 Credit Hour)
This course is a pass/fail course for master's students in their final semester. It may be taken to fulfill the registration requirement necessary for graduation.  All master's students are required to be registered for at least one graduate credit hour in the semester of their graduation.
Search catalog
