Additional Requirements
Dennis Gregory, Graduate Program Director
The Ph.D. Program in Education with a Higher Education Concentration is designed for those who aspire to senior administrative and faculty roles in institutions of higher education. Possession of this degree also provides those who have earned it with entry into business, government, research, and other leadership positions. The Higher Education Concentration is intended to prepare individuals for administrative and faculty positions and to provide these students with the skills to carry out scholarly research, lead organizations, and create new knowledge. The curriculum includes four parts: core courses, research courses, electives, and dissertation.
Admission
Prospective students seeking admission to the Ph.D. Program in Education - Higher Education Concentration must:
Meet all University admission requirements as listed in the Old Dominion University Catalog;
Have a completed Master's degree in an appropriate discipline from a regionally accredited university, and submit transcripts of all undergraduate and graduate work with a minimum GPA of 3.5 overall for the Master’s degree. Degrees that are equivalent to a Master’s degree such as L.L.B., J.D., and D.D.S. are also acceptable;
Provide three (3) letters of recommendation.  At least one letter must come from a professor or an individual who describes the applicant's academic performance and writing ability. Letters from senior-level leaders that endorse the applicant's leadership potential are encouraged;
Provide a 1-page single-spaced essay that addresses the questions: What are your professional goals? Why do you wish to obtain the specific degree for which you are applying?
Provide an original 2-page single-spaced academic writing sample. Pick one current issue facing higher education of interest to you. What is the issue? Why is the issue important to the field of higher education research and practice?
Provide a CV or resume that describes the applicant’s academic and professional background;
Applicants whose native language is not English must submit a current score for the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) iBT of at least 80.
Applicants must submit completed application materials by February 1. The admissions committee composed of Higher Education faculty will review all applications then will select applicants for an interview with the committee or committee member(s). Interviews will be used to determine final admissions decisions.
Admitted students will begin in the summer semester of the same year. First- and second-year students are expected to attend the Summer Institute, a series of intensive courses offered on Old Dominion University's main campus each summer. The dissertation requires a minimum of twelve credit hours depending on the length of time necessary for completion.
Curriculum Requirements
