Geography (GEOG)
GEOG 500 Seminar in Geography (3 Credit Hours)
Advanced study of a specialized topic in geography.  The choice of the topic may vary according to the availability of faculty expertise and student interest.
GEOG 501 Global Environmental Policy (3 Credit Hours)
This course analyzes the causes, severity, potential consequences, and proposed solutions regarding global ecological issues with special attention to the scientific debate and the political and policy process. It examines environmental policies of national governments, regional/international organizations and global conferences.
Prerequisites: GEOG 100S or GEOG 101S or GEOG 102T or POLS 100S or POLS 101S or POLS 102S or permission of the instructor
GEOG 502 Geographic Information Systems (3 Credit Hours)
A study of the conceptual basis of GIS as a tool for manipulating spatial information.  The course focuses on how geographic information can be input and organized within the framework of a GIS.  Students will work on a computer-based GIS to gain a greater understanding of spatial database structures and analytical operations.
Prerequisites: Junior standing, GEOG 102T , or permission of instructor
GEOG 504 Digital Techniques for Remote Sensing (3 Credit Hours)
Study of the theory and application of remote sensing, emphasizing environmental applications and aerial and satellite imagery.  Covers the fundamentals of multispectral digital image processing, including sensors pre-processing, enhancement, classification, accuracy assessment, and GIS data integration.
Prerequisites: Junior standing, GEOG 102T , or permission of instructor
GEOG 505 Seminar in International Resource Management (3 Credit Hours)
Discussion of the ecological and management principles underlying international resource management and the goal of attaining a sustainable, ecologically balanced world.
GEOG 508 Cartography (3 Credit Hours)
Computer-assisted methods and techniques employed in the design, construction, and use of maps and other graphics as tools for data analysis and communication.
GEOG 509 Drone Applications Proseminar (3 Credit Hours)
Survey of the state-of-the-art geospatial applications of small Uncrewed Autonomous Systems (sUAS) mapping, surveying, and modeling.  Course combines seminars spanning application sectors of research and professional practice; lectures on mission planning, operations, analysis and regulations; and hands-on practical exercises incorporating risk management, safety, ethics, and legal issues.
Prerequisites: GEOG 502 or permission of instructor
GEOG 510 Seminar in Urban Geography (3 Credit Hours)
Discussion of specific urban and metropolitan problems based on outside readings and individually selected research topics.
GEOG 511 Urban and Regional Planning (3 Credit Hours)
A study of planning concepts and principles used to guide contemporary metropolitan growth and development. Emphasis is on the application of planning tools and methods that guide the planning process from conception to execution.
GEOG 512 Cities of the World (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of cities of the world's major cultural realms with an emphasis on the urban landscape as it varies between developed and developing countries.
GEOG 517 GIS for Planning and Public Policy (3 Credit Hours)
Geographic Information Systems (GIS) and science are an essential tool for urban planners and policy makers who have special interests in places and who need this kind of knowledge for decision making. The purpose of this course is to teach students the foundations of GIS and how it is applied in urban planning and other related disciplines. The course combines lectures, discussion of readings, and hands-on exercises in the computer lab.
Prerequisites: GEOG 402 or GEOG 502 or permission of the instructor
GEOG 519 Spatial Analysis of Coastal Environments (3 Credit Hours)
The course integrates remotely sensed and field techniques for scientific investigation and practical management of coastal environmental systems.  Spatial modeling of coastal processes and management tools using Geographic Information System (GIS).
Prerequisites: GEOG 300 , GEOG 402 or GEOG 502 , or permission of instructor
GEOG 520 Marine Geography (3 Credit Hours)
An analysis of the environmental geography and resources of the ocean, with particular emphasis on geospatial analysis of the seafloor, hydrography, climate change, fisheries, ocean pollution, maritime activity spaces and management.
GEOG 522 Coastal Geography (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of the physical and human geography of the coastal zone.  Considers problems of managing coastal resources with an emphasis on North America. Lectures focus on coastal patterns, processes, and problems at the global, national, and local scales.  Students investigate a section of the local coastline and write a report on the physical and human geography on the basis of field study, library, and internet research.
GEOG 524 Weather, Climate, and Society (3 Credit Hours)
Weather and climate play a pivotal role in nearly every aspect of life.  How does temperature relate to health outcomes?  What impact does El Niño have on Peruvian farmers?  How is the issue of climate change reflected in national security policy?  Why?  Topics also include the energy balance equation, remote sensing techniques, and climatological data acquisition and analysis.  Beyond an understanding of the complex processes that dictate the flow of the atmosphere, the course analyzes the socioeconomic, political, and cultural perspectives of climate and weather.  The course also provides a framework for stewardship and responsibility to the future.
Prerequisites: GEOG 100S , 101S , or permission of the instructor
GEOG 525 Internet Geographic Information Systems (3 Credit Hours)
Theoretical and practical exploration of methods, standards, and policies related to the development and utilization of geographic information systems on the Internet.  Students will create and utilize distributed geospatial data and analytical systems using the WWW and the Internet to address geographical problems.
Prerequisites: GEOG 502
GEOG 532 Advanced GIS (3 Credit Hours)
The study of a series of advanced topics in the field of geographic information systems/science.  Focus is placed on the development of projects/models and a survey of several advanced techniques.  Students will work on a computer based GIS to implement topics from lectures.
Prerequisites: GEOG 502
GEOG 546 Geography, Gender, and Sexuality (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines gender identity and sexuality in all of their diverse forms through a lens of human geography, such as metaphors of space and place, the cultural landscape, and 'mapping territory.' Topics explored include global gender identities; 'queer space; 'locating' gender and sexuality within the arts and tourism; the gendered citizen and the nation; and political economies of gender and sexuality.
GEOG 551 Europe (3 Credit Hours)
A geographical analysis of the interrelationships among physical, cultural, economic, and political factors in Europe.
GEOG 552 Africa (3 Credit Hours)
A geographical analysis of the interrelationships among physical, cultural, economic, and political factors in Africa.
GEOG 553 Asia (3 Credit Hours)
A geographical analysis of the interrelationships among physical, cultural, economic, and political factors in Asia excluding the Middle East and the former USSR.
GEOG 554 Latin America (3 Credit Hours)
A geographical analysis of the interrelationships among physical, cultural, economic, and political factors in Latin America.
GEOG 555 The Middle East (3 Credit Hours)
A geographical analysis of the interrelationships among physical, cultural, economic, and political factors in the Middle East.
GEOG 558 Geography of Virginia (3 Credit Hours)
An analysis of Virginia's population, resources, and regional landscapes as they have been influenced by physical, cultural, historical, and economic factors.
GEOG 560 Medical Geography (3 Credit Hours)
The course covers a range of topics in medical and health geography, including spatial behaviors of infectious disease and health care access. The focus of the course is on the geographical patterns of health and disease from the population rather than individual scale. In addition to seminar style lectures and discussions, the course enables students to further investigate by learning how to conduct medical/health geography research.
GEOG 562 Advanced Spatial Analysis (3 Credit Hours)
This course introduces the essential theoretical concepts and analytical tools for analyzing spatial process, spatial autocorrelation, spatial patterns, techniques for spatial interpolation, network connectivity, big data, and landscape patterns. The course culminates with students carrying out their own spatial analysis projects. This course assumes that students understand the basic concepts in GIS with some experience in software operation of ArcGIS.
Prerequisites: GEOG 402 or GEOG 502 , or permission of the instructor
GEOG 563 GIS Programming (3 Credit Hours)
This course develops students’ GIS programming skills. Focus is placed on Python programming in ArcGIS and JavaScript in Web GIS development.
Prerequisites: GEOG 402 or GEOG 600
GEOG 564 Advanced Environmental Geography Seminar (3 Credit Hours)
The objective of the course is to provide students with a deeper understanding of the current concepts and debates in environmental geography.  By exploring the ethical and philosophical foundations of the field, the course considers the environment’s opportunities and constraints.  While topics may include climate change, agricultural security, and renewable energy, the course will be driven be student-led discussions and participation.  Critically thinking about complex phenomenon, the seminar will include various weekly readings, discussions, and writing assignments.
GEOG 573 Geographic Information Systems for Emergency Management (3 Credit Hours)
Students will demonstrate advanced skills and techniques using spatial data  to prevent, mitigate, respond to, and recover from intentional, natural, and accidental homeland security threats and emergencies. This course demonstrates the importance of rapidly disseminating spatial information towards the prevention and response of various organizations to homeland security events. This course will provide students with the tools and experience required to collect, prepare and manage spatial data and enable students to be prepared to map and analyze the data to quickly and effectively create a coordinated response to real homeland security events.
Prerequisites: GEOG 100S , GEOG 101S , GEOG 102T , or permission of the instructor
GEOG 575 Urban Resiliency (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the multifaceted interface of built and natural environments and their impacts on land use management at spatial and temporal scales. It evaluates the impact of population pressure on sustainability through a survey of urban areas and analyzes urban planning and management capacities to maintain resilience despite environmental and technological hazards.
Prerequisites: GEOG 100S , 101S , or equivalent or permission of the instructor
GEOG 590 Applied Cartography/GIS (1-3 Credit Hours)
Practical experience in applying the principles of cartography and geographical information systems to the design and construction of maps and other graphics.
GEOG 595 Topics in Geography (1-4 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics which, due to their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly.  These courses will appear in the course schedule, and will be more fully described in information distributed to academic advisors.
GEOG 596 Topics in Geography (1-4 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics which, due to their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly.  These courses will appear in the course schedule, and will be more fully described in information distributed to academic advisors.
GEOG 597 Independent Research in Geography (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of the instructor. Conferences and papers as appropriate.
GEOG 598 Tutorial Work in Geography (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent research under the supervision of a faculty member.
GEOG 600 Geospatial Data Analysis (3 Credit Hours)
Course focuses on the fundamentals of geospatial data science. Students learn the key data models, structures, sources, and application of spatial analysis using GIS software, R, programming, and Earth observations.
GEOG 601 Spatial Statistics and Modeling (3 Credit Hours)
This course covers the foundations of spatial statistics and modeling. Emphasis is placed on point, linear and areal patterns, geostatistics, and model development for a variety of problems using multiple software packages.
GEOG 620 Seminar in Political Geography (3 Credit Hours)
A study of the interrelationships of political and geographic phenomena, and theories of geopolitics; examines in a seminar format the political geography both of specific topics such as the national integration of states, refugees and resources, and of particular regions of the world.
GEOG 668 Internship (1-6 Credit Hours)
Individualized practical experience.
GEOG 695 Selected Topics in Geography (1-3 Credit Hours)
Advanced study of selected topics designed to permit small groups of qualified students to work on subjects of mutual interest.
GEOG 696 Selected Topics in Geography (1-3 Credit Hours)
Advanced study of selected topics designed to permit small groups of qualified students to work on subjects of mutual interest.
GEOG 697 Independent Research in Geography (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent research in geography under the supervision of a faculty member.
GEOG 720 Cultural Geography Seminar (3 Credit Hours)
This seminar examines the field of cultural geography with: 1) an emphasis on theories and concepts developed over the past twenty years in 'new' cultural geography, and 2) cultural geography's emphasis on issues such as place, power, landscape and identity.
International Studies (IS)
IS 600 Research Methods in International Studies (3 Credit Hours)
Interdisciplinary quantitative techniques applicable to the study of international phenomena.
IS 601 Seminar in International Relations Theory (3 Credit Hours)
Surveys major theoretical approaches to international relations and foreign policy.  A systematic introduction designed to lay a foundation for advanced graduate study.
IS 606 American Foreign Policy and World Order (3 Credit Hours)
This course deals with the adaptation of US foreign policies to the changing structure of the international system after WWII and in the Cold War, and since Reagan.  It is designed to review, analyze, and discuss the global rise of the US role in the world.  It will also assess the transformation of US interests since 1945, through the Cold War and since the events of September 11, 2001.
IS 655 International History (3 Credit Hours)
Course explores how different societies in the 20th century were shaped by similar practices, ideas, and pressures.  Course themes may include colonialism, the global history of World War II, the cold war ethnic distortion and the consumer revolution among others.
IS 668 Internship in International Studies (3 Credit Hours)
Individually arranged internship at local, state, national or international level.
Prerequisites: approval of the director
IS 695 Topics in International Studies (3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected (titled) topics not offered on a regular basis.
IS 696 Seminar Topics in International Studies (3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics in an interdisciplinary manner which permits small groups of qualified students to work on subjects of mutual interest.  Due to their specialized nature, seminar topics may not be offered regularly.
IS 697 Independent Research in International Studies (3 Credit Hours)
Independent research on a topic from an interdisciplinary perspective.  Students must receive prior approval from the faculty supervisor and the director.
IS 698 Directed Research (3 Credit Hours)
Methodological and theoretical preparation designed to assist students in writing a thesis.
Prerequisites: approval of director or instructor
IS 699 Thesis (1-9 Credit Hours)
Writing of the thesis.
IS 701 Global Change and American Foreign Policy (3 Credit Hours)
This research seminar examines the transformation of the U.S. role in the world in the global context of the 20th Century and since September 2001.
IS 702 Approaches to Collective Security (3 Credit Hours)
This seminar explores the origins of the idea of collective security, examines the attempts to organize international security collectively and assesses possibilities and opportunities for collective security arrangements after the Cold War.
IS 703 Ethics and International Relations (3 Credit Hours)
The focus of this research seminar will be on the role of normative ideas in international relations.  Students will be introduced to the growing literature on normative approaches to international relations as well as the traditional literature on the practical and philosophical problems of ethical action in the relations of states.  Although a number of policy applications will be considered, the primary focus will be on the theoretical incorporation of normative ideas into our understanding of state action in the anarchic international environment
IS 704 Latin American Politics (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines Latin American politics from comparative and historical perspectives.  Particular focus is placed on various manifestations of political authority in the region and the major societal challenges to state power.  The course reviews and critiques alternative theoretical approaches to the study of state-societal relations in Latin America.
IS 705 The Euro-Atlantic Community (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of the Euro-Atlantic area as a partial international system since World War II; alignments and patterns within and between the members of the European "community" and the role and attitudes of the United States and leading European states to preserve and strengthen their sovereign prerogatives and influence; and the prospects for a true Euro-Atlantic community that would link the U.S. and Europe.
IS 707 Interdependence, Power, and Transnationalism (3 Credit Hours)
This course covers the fundamental concepts, ideas, and approaches to the study of interdependence and transnationalism.  It seeks to expose students to the nature, role, and impact of economic, technological, strategic, and cultural interdependence.  Cases of interdependence and transnationalism are explored in the post-Cold War era.  Some focus is placed on how interdependence and transnationalism are impacting the power of the state.
IS 708 Asian Politics (3 Credit Hours)
This course is a graduate seminar on the domestic politics and international relations of (East) Asia focusing on both Northeast and Southeast Asia. The first half of the course examines the domestic politics of Asian countries, with a focus on mainland China, Taiwan, Japan, and South Korea. The topics include political development, state-society relations, and political economy. The second half of the course turns to foreign relations in the region, exploring various topics and different levels of analysis to understanding the regional dynamics.
IS 709 Chinese Foreign Policy (3 Credit Hours)
This seminar includes an advanced survey of theoretical approaches to the study of Chinese foreign policy and in-depth analyses of the domestic/international environment, ideological principles, political/economic goals, military/diplomatic instruments, decision-making processes, and global/regional consequences of Chinese foreign policy.
IS 710 Global Environmental Policy (3 Credit Hours)
This seminar examines the institutions and political actors involved in global environmental policy making with emphasis on the role of the United States.  In doing so, it addresses the scientific and political debate concerning the causes, consequences, and proposed solutions of selected worldwide ecological problems, including global climate change, stratospheric ozone depletion, acid rain, and loss of biodiversity among others.
IS 711 International Migration and Refugee Movement (3 Credit Hours)
A review of current literature and empirical issues concerning transnational migration and refugees.
IS 712 The New Germany in the New Europe (3 Credit Hours)
The unification of Germany and the end of the East-West conflict have changed the context within which policy is made in Europe.  What kind of Europe will emerge?  What kind of hierarchies will determine direction and pace of European politics?  The purpose of this course is to explore the role played by Germany in the development of post-Cold War European politics.
IS 713 Global Political Economy (3 Credit Hours)
Analysis of the forces shaping national and transnational economic institutions and their policies on a range of contemporary issues, including North-South relations.
IS 714 Law in the International System (3 Credit Hours)
An introduction to the principles of international law and to the political and institutional role of law in the relations of states.
IS 715 France and New Europe (3 Credit Hours)
Emphasis will be placed on the transformation of French-American relations from the idyllic beginnings of the American nation to the complexities of the Cold War, to the new alignments of the new Europe and the European Union.
IS 716 Theories of Comparative Sociopolitical Studies (3 Credit Hours)
The fundamental goal of the course is to provide the theoretical basis for subsequent coursework and research in the comparative and regional studies track.  To achieve this goal, this seminar examines major theories and debates in comparative social and political studies based on extensive and intensive literature review.
IS 717 World Population and Development (3 Credit Hours)
This seminar discusses population processes and their connections to socioeconomic development.  A nontechnical course, the goal is to introduce students to the major concerns and issues in population and current debates over the role of population in sustainable development.  It will provide students with a systematic but critical review of research findings and issues in various areas of population and development.
IS 720 Research Seminar in Global Security (3 Credit Hours)
The research seminar investigates the profound changes in international security brought about by the end of the Cold War with a specific focus on the role of nuclear weapons.  The primary purpose of the seminar is to promote research into the global aspects of the nuclear issue and to enhance understanding of the relationship between nuclear control and the New World Order.
IS 721 New World Order:  Chaos and Coherence (3 Credit Hours)
This course explores ideas of order and how they apply to international politics over space and time. Using theories of international relations, students look at how states and other international actors shape the principles and practices on which order is built and how these actors navigate among the many challenges and disruptions that arise. Specifically, students study the international liberal order, power shifts, and technological innovations, including cyber, and the rise and demise of norms in the international system.
IS 722 Democracy and International Relations (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of the relationship between democratic politics, democratic ideals, and international relations.  Subjects covered will include trends and processes of democratization and their implications for international relations, the distinctiveness of democratic states in their international behavior, the impact of the international environment on the internal politics of democratic states, and the problems of democracy in global governance.
IS 723 Advanced Statistical Techniques in International Studies (3 Credit Hours)
Introduces the use of advanced statistical techniques for the analysis of social science data.  The central objective is to give students a working understanding of multivariate analysis, with a particular focus on the techniques and problems associated with multiple regression, causal analysis, and limited dependent variable maximum likelihood models.
Prerequisites: IS 600 or equivalent
IS 724 International & Comparative Political Economy (3 Credit Hours)
This class focuses on core theories of international political economy, including international trade, international finance, foreign direct investment, the role of multinational corporations, and the subfield of comparative political economy. Students are introduced to the two main paradigms of contemporary economics, Keynesianism and Hayekian monetarism. Students study labor markets and industrial relations, welfare states, the domestic regulation of finance, the politics of debt, inequality, and the role of the state.
IS 725 Politics of the Middle East (3 Credit Hours)
Explores the international relations of the Middle East from World War I to the present.  Examines the origins of the Arab-Israeli and Persian Gulf Wars and their modern dimensions.  Examines the role of oil, outside powers and religion.
IS 728 Ghosts of French Colonization (3 Credit Hours)
An analysis of France ex-colonies as they moved from colonization and decolonization to independence.  An overview of political, historical, cinematic, and literary texts with a focus on France’s relationship with its ex-colonies, and its ex-colonies’ struggles in a post-decolonized world up until contemporary times.
IS 731 Media & Migration (3 Credit Hours)
This class explores the complex relationships between immigration, globalization, nationalism, and media at the turn of the 21st Century. Students distinguish between different forms of migration and experiences of travel. It explores how media has depicted immigration processes and shaped public attitudes toward different immigrant groups. It also investigates how first- and second-generation immigrant populations consume and produce media that both shape and are shaped by transnational identity formations.
IS 732 National Identity in a Global Age (3 Credit Hours)
This course will focus on narratives of national identity in the age of globalization.  Seminal works of cultural criticism, philosophy, and political philosophy will shed light on the complex nature of national identity construction in the contemporary world.
IS 734 U.S. Grand Strategy (3 Credit Hours)
This course offers a thorough exploration into the subject of U.S. grand strategy. It confronts debates over the definition and usefulness of grand strategy, examines variations across the history of U.S. grand strategy and among current visions for U.S. grand strategy, and analyzes subjects of core concern to U.S. grand strategy.
IS 735 International Relations of the Middle East (3 Credit Hours)
The purpose of this course is to help the student understand, evaluate and analyze key features of the international relations of the Middle East. Major issues covered include the historical background of the Middle East, primarily from World War I; Islam and Islamism; Zionism and Israel; Arab nationalism and pan-Arabism; the Arab-Israeli conflict in its historical and contemporary context; the Persian Gulf wars; global oil dynamics; the foreign policy of key regional states; the role of outside powers in the region, especially the United States; and major issues including democratization, WMD, and the Arab Spring.
Prerequisites: Instructor or Director approval
IS 738 European Politics (3 Credit Hours)
The course explores on the politics of Europe, focusing on four core themes: the political economy and the travails of the single currency, the question of immigration, legitimacy and democracy, and the changing political landscape. Students will familiarize themselves with the European Union and its institutions, as well as such themes as populism, the decline of centrist political parties and economic stagnation.
IS 740 Political Economy of Development (3 Credit Hours)
This seminar examines alternate theoretical perspectives on development.  These perspectives are then employed to understand contemporary political and economic changes in the developing world, including the consolidation of democratic governance and the liberalization of domestic economics.
IS 741 Globalization and Social Change in the World System (3 Credit Hours)
This course is intended to first identify the distinguishing characteristics of globalization.  It then attempts to examine its implications on a number of critical issues, including the future of democracy, income distribution and ethnic, class, and gender relations.
IS 748 Gender and Globalization (3 Credit Hours)
Studies systems of global restructuring as they impact women throughout the globe.  Migration, international development, and transnational activism will be focal themes, explored across a variety of national contexts.
IS 750 France's Decolonized Legacy: Africa, Asia, the Caribbean, Quebec (3 Credit Hours)
An analysis of France's ex-colonies as they moved from colonization and decolonization to independence. An overview of political, historical, cinematic, and literary texts with a focus on France's relationship with its ex-colonies, and its ex-colonies' struggles in a post-decolonized world.
Prerequisites: Approval of instructor or director
IS 751 Ethnic Conflict in the Emerging Global Order (3 Credit Hours)
Using different case studies, this course investigates the most important internal and external factors that cause ethnic conflicts. It also examines different mechanisms that help resolve or mitigate such conflicts.
IS 752 Research Seminar in International Studies:  Refugees (3 Credit Hours)
This is a graduate-level seminar focusing on the refugee movement from a global perspective.  The goals are to provide a critical and realistic understanding of the refugee phenomenon and to explain why the refugees tend to follow some identifiable paths, and why they sometimes return and sometimes do not.  Discussion will be centered on the causes and consequences of refugee flow, and the roles the more developed countries can play in helping solve the problem.
IS 755 Conflict and Violence in Modern Africa (3 Credit Hours)
This course will confront the theme of conflict and violence in Africa since the mid-20th century.  It will explore the reasons behind the level of violent conflicts in the continent today, seek to understand their larger significance, and explore ideas for conflict resolution and prevention.  (cross listed with HIST 755)
IS 760 International Cultural Studies: History, Theory and Application (3 Credit Hours)
Course analyzes culture in the context of material conditions in which it is produced, disseminated, controlled and practiced.  Theoretical application of cultural studies will include developing familiarity with key foundational theories, terminologies, and critical thinking.
IS 762 Game Theory (3 Credit Hours)
Game theory uses mathematical models, empirical investigation, and simulations in an effort to explain simple and complex strategic interactions among individuals, states, groups, and species.  This course teaches the tools of game theory, with a focus on applications in international relations and political science.
IS 765 Agent-Based Modeling and Simulation for International Studies (3 Credit Hours)
An introduction to complex systems theory and to the application of agent-based modeling technologies to a variety of social systems.
IS 770 Transnational Media Practices (3 Credit Hours)
Course examines the key roles played by media technologies in implementing and promoting international development programs, as well as some of the concerns these initiatives have raised in terms of media literacy, cultural sovereignty, and information access.
IS 772 Modeling Global Events (3 Credit Hours)
This course introduces modeling and simulation as a tool for expanding one's understanding of events that have shaped the global environment of the 21st century. The course will first provide a broad look at international politics through a review of select international incidents, military interventions, and homeland security issues. Second, select topics from these categories will serve as case studies to facilitate representing those events with the application of modeling, simulation, and visualization. Understanding how modeling and simulation can provide another method of analysis allows students to delve deeper into their understanding of "what happened" and to explore their conception of "what if."
Prerequisites: Approval of instructor or director
IS 790 Advanced Seminar Conflict & Cooperation (3 Credit Hours)
This course explores debates in the field of Security Studies, their relevance to creating knowledge, discourse, consensus and critique, and the development of diverse research agendas.
IS 794 Seminar in Thesis and Dissertation Preparation (3 Credit Hours)
Prepares students to research, formulate and write thesis and dissertation prospectuses.
Prerequisites: permission of the director
IS 795 Topics in International Studies (1-3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study and discussion of selected (titled) topics not offered on a regular basis.
IS 796 Selected Topics in International Studies (1-3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics in an interdisciplinary manner which will permit small groups of qualified students to work on subjects of mutual interest.  Due to their specialized nature, the course may not be offered regularly.
IS 801 Global Change and American Foreign Policy (3 Credit Hours)
This research seminar examines the transformation of the U.S. role in the world in the global context of the 20th Century and since September 2001.
IS 802 Approaches to Collective Security (3 Credit Hours)
This seminar explores the origins of the idea of collective security, examines the attempts to organize international security collectively and assesses possibilities and opportunities for collective security arrangements after the Cold War.
IS 803 Ethics and International Relations (3 Credit Hours)
The focus of this research seminar will be on the role of normative ideas in international relations.  Students will be introduced to the growing literature on normative approaches to international relations as well as the traditional literature on the practical and philosophical problems of ethical action in the relations of states.  Although a number of policy applications will be considered, the primary focus will be on the theoretical incorporation of normative ideas into our understanding of state action in the anarchic international environment
IS 804 Latin American Politics (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines Latin American politics from comparative and historical perspectives.  Particular focus is placed on various manifestations of political authority in the region and the major societal challenges to state power.  The course reviews and critiques alternative theoretical approaches to the study of state-societal relations in Latin America.
IS 805 The Euro-Atlantic Community (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of the Euro-Atlantic area as a partial international system since World War II; alignments and patterns within and between the members of the European "community" and the role and attitudes of the United States and leading European states to preserve and strengthen their sovereign prerogatives and influence; and the prospects for a true Euro-Atlantic community that would link the U.S. and Europe.
IS 807 Interdependence, Power, and Transnationalism (3 Credit Hours)
This course covers the fundamental concepts, ideas, and approaches to the study of interdependence and transnationalism.  It seeks to expose students to the nature, role, and impact of economic, technological, strategic, and cultural interdependence.  Cases of interdependence and transnationalism are explored in the post-Cold War era.  Some focus is placed on how interdependence and transnationalism are impacting the power of the state.
IS 808 Asian Politics (3 Credit Hours)
This course is a graduate seminar on the domestic politics and international relations of (East) Asia focusing on both Northeast and Southeast Asia. The first half of the course examines the domestic politics of Asian countries, with a focus on mainland China, Taiwan, Japan, and South Korea. The topics include political development, state-society relations, and political economy. The second half of the course turns to foreign relations in the region, exploring various topics and different levels of analysis to understanding the regional dynamics.
IS 809 Chinese Foreign Policy (3 Credit Hours)
This seminar includes an advanced survey of theoretical approaches to the study of Chinese foreign policy and in-depth analyses of the domestic/international environment, ideological principles, political/economic goals, military/diplomatic instruments, decision-making processes, and global/regional consequences of Chinese foreign policy.
IS 810 Global Environmental Policy (3 Credit Hours)
This seminar examines the institutions and political actors involved in global environmental policy making with emphasis on the role of the United States.  In doing so, it addresses the scientific and political debate concerning the causes, consequences, and proposed solutions of selected worldwide ecological problems, including global climate change, stratospheric ozone depletion, acid rain, and loss of biodiversity among others.
IS 811 International Migration and Refugee Movement (3 Credit Hours)
A review of current literature and empirical issues concerning transnational migration and refugees.
IS 812 The New Germany in the New Europe (3 Credit Hours)
The unification of Germany and the end of the East-West conflict have changed the context within which policy is made in Europe.  What kind of Europe will emerge?  What kind of hierarchies will determine direction and pace of European politics?  The purpose of this course is to explore the role played by Germany in the development of post-Cold War European politics.
IS 813 Global Political Economy (3 Credit Hours)
Analysis of the forces shaping national and transnational economic institutions and their policies on a range of contemporary issues, including North-South relations.
IS 814 Law in the International System (3 Credit Hours)
An introduction to the principles of international law and to the political and institutional role of law in the relations of states.
IS 815 France and New Europe (3 Credit Hours)
Emphasis will be placed on the transformation of French-American relations from the idyllic beginnings of the American nation to the complexities of the Cold War, to the new alignments of the new Europe and the European Union.
IS 816 Theories of Comparative Sociopolitical Studies (3 Credit Hours)
The fundamental goal of the course is to provide the theoretical basis for subsequent coursework and research in the comparative and regional studies track.  To achieve this goal, this seminar examines major theories and debates in comparative social and political studies based on extensive and intensive literature review.
IS 817 World Population and Development (3 Credit Hours)
This seminar discusses population processes and their connections to socioeconomic development.  A nontechnical course, the goal is to introduce students to the major concerns and issues in population and current debates over the role of population in sustainable development.  It will provide students with a systematic but critical review of research findings and issues in various areas of population and development.
IS 820 Research Seminar in Global Security (3 Credit Hours)
The research seminar investigates the profound changes in international security brought about by the end of the Cold War with a specific focus on the role of nuclear weapons.  The primary purpose of the seminar is to promote research into the global aspects of the nuclear issue and to enhance understanding of the relationship between nuclear control and the New World Order.
IS 821 New World Order:  Chaos and Coherence (3 Credit Hours)
This course explores ideas of order and how they apply to international politics over space and time. Using theories of international relations, students look at how states and other international actors shape the principles and practices on which order is built and how these actors navigate among the many challenges and disruptions that arise. Specifically, students study the international liberal order, power shifts, and technological innovations, including cyber, and the rise and demise of norms in the international system.
IS 822 Democracy and International Relations (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of the relationship between democratic politics, democratic ideals, and international relations.  Subjects covered will include trends and processes of democratization and their implications for international relations, the distinctiveness of democratic states in their international behavior, the impact of the international environment on the internal politics of democratic states, and the problems of democracy in global governance.
IS 823 Advanced Statistical Techniques in International Studies (3 Credit Hours)
Introduces the use of advanced statistical techniques for the analysis of social science data.  The central objective is to give students a working understanding of multivariate analysis, with a particular focus on the techniques and problems associated with multiple regression, causal analysis, and limited dependent variable maximum likelihood models.
Prerequisites: IS 600 or equivalent
IS 824 International & Comparative Political Economy (3 Credit Hours)
This class focuses on core theories of international political economy, including international trade, international finance, foreign direct investment, the role of multinational corporations, and the subfield of comparative political economy. Students are introduced to the two main paradigms of contemporary economics, Keynesianism and Hayekian monetarism. Students study labor markets and industrial relations, welfare states, the domestic regulation of finance, the politics of debt, inequality, and the role of the state.
IS 825 Politics of the Middle East (3 Credit Hours)
Explores the international relations of the Middle East from World War I to the present.  Examines the origins of the Arab-Israeli and Persian Gulf Wars and their modern dimensions.  Examines the role of oil, outside powers and religion.
IS 828 Ghosts of French Colonization (3 Credit Hours)
An analysis of France ex-colonies as they moved from colonization and decolonization to independence.  An overview of political, historical, cinematic, and literary texts with a focus on France’s relationship with its ex-colonies, and its ex-colonies’ struggles in a post-decolonized world up until contemporary times.
IS 831 Media & Migration (3 Credit Hours)
This class explores the complex relationships between immigration, globalization, nationalism, and media at the turn of the 21st Century. Students distinguish between different forms of migration and experiences of travel. It explores how media has depicted immigration processes and shaped public attitudes toward different immigrant groups. It also investigates how first- and second-generation immigrant populations consume and produce media that both shape and are shaped by transnational identity formations.
IS 832 National Identity in a Global Age (3 Credit Hours)
This course will focus on narratives of national identity in the age of globalization.  Seminal works of cultural criticism, philosophy, and political philosophy will shed light on the complex nature of national identity construction in the contemporary world.
IS 834 U.S. Grand Strategy (3 Credit Hours)
This course offers a thorough exploration into the subject of U.S. grand strategy. It confronts debates over the definition and usefulness of grand strategy, examines variations across the history of U.S. grand strategy and among current visions for U.S. grand strategy, and analyzes subjects of core concern to U.S. grand strategy.
IS 835 International Relations of the Middle East (3 Credit Hours)
The purpose of this course is to help the student understand, evaluate and analyze key features of the international relations of the Middle East. Major issues covered include the historical background of the Middle East, primarily from World War I; Islam and Islamism; Zionism and Israel; Arab nationalism and pan-Arabism; the Arab-Israeli conflict in its historical and contemporary context; the Persian Gulf wars; global oil dynamics; the foreign policy of key regional states; the role of outside powers in the region, especially the United States; and major issues including democratization, WMD, and the Arab Spring.
Prerequisites: Instructor or Director approval
IS 838 European Politics (3 Credit Hours)
The course explores on the politics of Europe, focusing on four core themes: the political economy and the travails of the single currency, the question of immigration, legitimacy and democracy, and the changing political landscape. Students will familiarize themselves with the European Union and its institutions, as well as such themes as populism, the decline of centrist political parties and economic stagnation.
IS 840 Political Economy of Development (3 Credit Hours)
This seminar examines alternate theoretical perspectives on development.  These perspectives are then employed to understand contemporary political and economic changes in the developing world, including the consolidation of democratic governance and the liberalization of domestic economics.
IS 841 Globalization and Social Change in the World System (3 Credit Hours)
This course is intended to first identify the distinguishing characteristics of globalization.  It then attempts to examine its implications on a number of critical issues, including the future of democracy, income distribution and ethnic, class, and gender relations.
IS 848 Gender and Globalization (3 Credit Hours)
Studies systems of global restructuring as they impact women throughout the globe.  Migration, international development, and transnational activism will be focal themes, explored across a variety of national contexts.
IS 850 France's Decolonized Legacy: Africa, Asia, the Caribbean, Quebec (3 Credit Hours)
An analysis of France's ex-colonies as they moved from colonization and decolonization to independence. An overview of political, historical, cinematic, and literary texts with a focus on France's relationship with its ex-colonies, and its ex-colonies' struggles in a post-decolonized world.
Prerequisites: Approval of instructor or director
IS 851 Ethnic Conflict in the Emerging Global Order (3 Credit Hours)
Using different case studies, this course investigates the most important internal and external factors that cause ethnic conflicts. It also examines different mechanisms that help resolve or mitigate such conflicts.
IS 852 Research Seminar in International Studies:  Refugees (3 Credit Hours)
This is a graduate-level seminar focusing on the refugee movement from a global perspective.  The goals are to provide a critical and realistic understanding of the refugee phenomenon and to explain why the refugees tend to follow some identifiable paths, and why they sometimes return and sometimes do not.  Discussion will be centered on the causes and consequences of refugee flow, and the roles the more developed countries can play in helping solve the problem.
IS 855 Conflict and Violence in Modern Africa (3 Credit Hours)
This course will confront the theme of conflict and violence in Africa since the mid-20th century.  It will explore the reasons behind the level of violent conflicts in the continent today, seek to understand their larger significance, and explore ideas for conflict resolution and prevention.  (cross listed with HIST 755)
IS 860 International Cultural Studies: History, Theory and Application (3 Credit Hours)
Course analyzes culture in the context of material conditions in which it is produced, disseminated, controlled and practiced.  Theoretical application of cultural studies will include developing familiarity with key foundational theories, terminologies, and critical thinking.
IS 862 Game Theory (3 Credit Hours)
Game theory uses mathematical models, empirical investigation, and simulations in an effort to explain simple and complex strategic interactions among individuals, states, groups, and species.  This course teaches the tools of game theory, with a focus on applications in international relations and political science.
IS 865 Agent-Based Modeling and Simulation for International Studies (3 Credit Hours)
An introduction to complex systems theory and to the application of agent-based modeling technologies to a variety of social systems.
IS 868 Internship in International Studies (3 Credit Hours)
Internship individually arranged at local, state, or international level.
Prerequisites: approval of director
IS 870 Transnational Media Practices (3 Credit Hours)
Course examines the key roles played by media technologies in implementing and promoting international development programs, as well as some of the concerns these initiatives have raised in terms of media literacy, cultural sovereignty, and information access.
IS 872 Modeling Global Events (3 Credit Hours)
This course introduces modeling and simulation as a tool for expanding one's understanding of events that have shaped the global environment of the 21st century. The course will first provide a broad look at international politics through a review of select international incidents, military interventions, and homeland security issues. Second, select topics from these categories will serve as case studies to facilitate representing those events with the application of modeling, simulation, and visualization. Understanding how modeling and simulation can provide another method of analysis allows students to delve deeper into their understanding of "what happened" and to explore their conception of "what if."
Prerequisites: Approval of instructor or director
IS 890 Advanced Seminar Conflict & Cooperation (3 Credit Hours)
This course explores debates in the field of Security Studies, their relevance to creating knowledge, discourse, consensus and critique, and the development of diverse research agendas.
IS 894 Seminar in Thesis and Dissertation Preparation (3 Credit Hours)
Prepares students to research, formulate and write thesis and dissertation prospectuses.
Prerequisites: permission of the director
IS 895 Topics in International Studies (1-3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study and discussion of selected (titled) topics not offered on a regular basis.
IS 896 Selected Topics in International Studies (1-3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics in an interdisciplinary manner which will permit small groups of qualified students to work on subjects of mutual interest.  Due to their specialized nature, the course may not be offered regularly.
IS 897 Independent Research in International Studies (3 Credit Hours)
Independent research directed by professors.
Prerequisites: approval of the director
IS 898 Directed Research (1-9 Credit Hours)
Methodological and theoretical preparation designed to assist students in writing a dissertation.
Prerequisites: approval of director or instructor
IS 899 Dissertation (1-9 Credit Hours)
May be repeated up to 18 credits.
IS 998 Master's Graduate Credit (1 Credit Hour)
This course is a pass/fail course for master's students in their final semester. It may be taken to fulfill the registration requirement necessary for graduation.  All master's students are required to be registered for at least one graduate credit hour in the semester of their graduation.
IS 999 Doctoral Graduate Credit (1 Credit Hour)
This course is a pass/fail course doctoral students may take to maintain active status after successfully passing the candidacy examination.  All doctoral students are required to be registered for at least one graduate credit hour every semester until their graduation.
Political Science (POLS)
POLS 501 Global Environmental Policy (3 Credit Hours)
This course analyzes the causes, severity, potential consequences, and proposed solutions regarding global ecological issues with special attention to the scientific debate and the political and policy process. It examines environmental policies of national governments, regional/international organizations, and global conferences.
Prerequisites: GEOG 100S or GEOG 101S or GEOG 102T or POLS 100S or POLS 102S
POLS 503 American Constitutional Law: First Amendment (3 Credit Hours)
The course explores the development of conflicting judicial and legal theories arising from Supreme Court enforcement of the First Amendment’s protection of speech and religious freedoms. Supreme Court opinions, along with the underlying theories that inform its decisions and rationales, are the focus of the assignments and class discussion.
POLS 510 African American Politics (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the political development of Black people in the United States by focusing on the relationship and processes of the American political system.  The political dynamics of Black political thought, the Civil Rights Movement, and Black protest politics are also analyzed.
POLS 512 Politics of the Civil Rights Movement (3 Credit Hours)
Examines the political activities which resulted in the passage of the nation's second Civil Rights policy, the 1960 and 1964 Civil Rights Acts, the 1965 Voting Rights Act and the 1968 Fair Housing Act. The course analyzes the underpinnings, leadership, and political strategies of the Civil Rights Movement.
POLS 514 Politics of Education (3 Credit Hours)
The question of power, often ignored by education policy analysts and researchers, is a principal focus of this seminar.  Issues ranging from the role of education in political socialization and the politics of affirmative action and equal opportunity are examined.
POLS 515 Women and Politics in America (3 Credit Hours)
Examines women's place in political theory and the practice of politics in the United States. A major focus is to trace the development of women's political rights, the impact of public policy on the lives of American women and to see how women influence and participate in the political process.
POLS 520 Southern Politics (3 Credit Hours)
This seminar focuses on the politics of the American South from the 1940s to the present.  Emphasis is on introducing students to contrasting explanations and analysis about the politics of the American South.
POLS 521 International Law (3 Credit Hours)
Surveys major areas of public international law (e.g., laws of warfare, law of the sea, conflict resolution, etc.).  Emphasizes the relationship between international law and international politics.
POLS 524 International Organization (3 Credit Hours)
Course provides a basis for understanding the role and importance of international organizations in contemporary international relations.  Focuses on development and history of global organizations, with particular emphasis on the United Nations, and regional and functional organizations.
POLS 534 Political Participation in the United States (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of current theories and research on political behavior, conventional and unconventional modes of political participation, and the impact of participation on the political system.
POLS 535 Chinese Politics (3 Credit Hours)
A study of origins of the Chinese revolution; development and functions of the Chinese Communist Party;  government institutions; the defense establishment; evolution of foreign policy; and post-Mao political and economic reforms.
POLS 537 International Relations in East Asia (3 Credit Hours)
A study of contemporary issues (political, economic, and strategic) in the East Asia area; the interactions of China, Japan, the United States, and the former Soviet republics in East Asia.
POLS 538 Law in Literature and Film (3 Credit Hours)
Students will study law as seen through the lens of fiction.  Assignments draw heavily from classic and contemporary novels, short stories, plays, films, and perhaps television.  As these artistic representations of law in action are explored, short theoretical readings help focus on questions of philosophy, politics, and justice.  The course also explores the relationship between fiction and reality through appellate opinions and contemporary literature on the American legal system.  The goal is to come to a better understanding of the potential blessings, dangers, and limitations of law.
POLS 539 International Relations of African States (3 Credit Hours)
This course aims to expose students to an examination of the workings of international politics from the viewpoint of Africans and African states. International relations have tended to look at the world from the viewpoint of its most powerful states. Yet, most the world's states - notably in Africa - are weak but have great potential global impact.
POLS 542 Twentieth Century Dictatorships (3 Credit Hours)
A study of the Fascist, Nazi, Stalin and Mao regimes and the forces that brought them to power and sustained them, including a study of the impact of their policies on their people and neighboring states.
POLS 555 The Politics of Climate Change (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of the science of climate change and how United States political actors have responded to this global environmental challenge.
POLS 566 Politics of the Middle East (3 Credit Hours)
An analysis of the political processes throughout the region and in selected nations of the Middle East.  Topics to be discussed include inter-Arab relations, the Arab-Israeli conflict, the Iran-Iraq rivalry and foreign power involvement in the Middle East.
POLS 595 Topics in Political Science (1-3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics which, due to their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly.
POLS 596 Topics in Political Science (1-3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics which, due to their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly.
POLS 597 Independent Research in Political Science (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent research in political science under the supervision of a faculty member.
POLS 602 Seminar in American Foreign Policy (3 Credit Hours)
The formulation and conduct of U.S. foreign policy under changing domestic and external circumstances.  Models of decision making; interrelationships of economic, political, and military factors; major trends in contemporary American foreign policy making.
POLS 623 Foreign Policy Analysis (3 Credit Hours)
Comparative study of foreign policy behavior.  Internal and external factors in formation and implementation of foreign policy.  Examination and application of foreign policy models.
POLS 624 National Security Policy (3 Credit Hours)
Examines U.S. national security policy, strategy and the use of force, the formulation and execution of policy, the international dimension of national security, and contemporary issues in national security.
POLS 626 Seminar in Politics of Russia and the Soviet Successor States (3 Credit Hours)
Power and authority in Russia and the other successor states of the former Soviet Union.  Although focusing on Russia, the course embraces the contemporary internal politics of the states in the space between Germany and Japan/China including Central Asia and the Caucasus.  Emphasizes research methodology and strategies.
POLS 631 Seminar in Chinese Politics (3 Credit Hours)
An advanced survey and research on contemporary Chinese politics, political and economic reforms; intellectuals and politics; China's experience of socialist revolution and economic construction; and foreign policy.
POLS 650 Interdependence, Power  and Transnationalism (3 Credit Hours)
This course covers the fundamental concepts, ideas, and approaches to the study of interdependence and transnationalism.  It seeks to expose students to the nature, role, and impact of economic, technological, strategic, and cultural interdependence.  Cases of interdependence and transnationalism are explored in the post-Cold War era.  Some focus is placed on how interdependence and transnationalism are impacting the power of the state.
Prerequisites: Permission of director or instructor
POLS 665 International Political Economy (3 Credit Hours)
Analysis of the forces shaping national and transnational economic institutions and their policies on a range of contemporary issues, including North-South relations.
POLS 695 Selected Topics in Political Science (1-3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics which, due to their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly.
POLS 696 Selected Topics in Political Science (1-3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics which, due to their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly.
POLS 697 Independent Research in Political Science (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent research in political science under the supervision of a faculty member.
Search catalog
