Graduate Courses
SMGT 214 Introduction to Sport Management (3 Credit Hours)
Course will introduce students to the basic foundational knowledge of the sport industry, plus a wide range of career opportunities involving sport, and the various impacts of sport.
Prerequisites: A passing grade in MATH 102M or MATH 103M or MATH 162M or STAT 130M
SMGT 305 Sport Administrative Theory (3 Credit Hours)
Principles of organization and administration as they apply to managing sport organizations.  Issues  related to working with and through individuals to achieve organizational goals and objectives are discussed.
Prerequisites: SMGT 214 with a grade of C- or better
SMGT 312 Sport Sales (3 Credit Hours)
This course will teach students to learn and navigate the sport sales process.  The financial strength of a sport entity is determined by its sales ability, and through lecture, guest speakers, and applied 'real world' exercises, students will have the opportunity to obtain knowledge, skills, and experiences in sport sales that are essential for entry level positions.
Prerequisites: SMGT 214 with a grade of C- or better
SMGT 315 Sport Media and Public Relations (3 Credit Hours)
An introduction to sport media and public relations.  Special emphasis will be placed on the communications process in sport and the various mediums that can be used to convey messages.  The internal and external publics involved in sport public relations will be examined along with the steps involved in the process.
Prerequisites: SMGT 214 with a grade of C- or better, and a grade of C or better in ENGL 110C and ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C
SMGT 331 Fiscal Planning and Management in Sport and Recreation (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to examine the principles and practices of financial management in diverse recreation and sport service settings. Course will explore the basic concepts of financial planning and analysis to effectively manage a successful operation.
Prerequisites: SMGT 214 with a grade of C- or better, ACCT 201 , and MATH 102M or higher
SMGT 368 Internship (12 Credit Hours)
Culminating field-based experience required for all students with a major in sport management. Students will work with faculty in securing a placement with a sport-related organization to apply the knowledge from the classroom to real-world experiences. Minimum of 400 clock hours. Internship sites must be approved by the internship coordinator.
Prerequisites: A passing grade in SMGT 366, senior standing with a minimum of 30 earned credits in SMGT courses, a GPA of 2.0 in the major, and permission of the instructor
SMGT 369 Sport Management Practicum (3 Credit Hours)
A practical experience allowing sport management pre-internship students to shadow and observe sport industry professionals in a field-based setting. Portfolio development, reflective assessment of management, observation techniques and internship requirements will be emphasized.
Prerequisites: SMGT 214 with a grade of C- or better, sophomore standing or higher, restricted to sport management majors or minors, and permission of the instructor
SMGT 414 Sport Marketing (3 Credit Hours)
Course will examine competitive market strategies as they apply to the sport industry.  Emphasis will be placed on the relationship between sport products and sport markets, the communication mix, market research, and the role of strategic planning for business sponsorship.
Prerequisites: SMGT 214 with a grade of C- or better and junior standing
SMGT 415 Principles of Coaching Management (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide students with a basic knowledge of the coaching profession.  Special emphasis will be placed on establishing a sound coaching philosophy, selecting a coaching style, desirable qualities of a coach, ethics and the coach, roles of the head coach, planning and organizing for games and practices, coaching pedagogy, off-season planning, final preparations for the season, and issues and problems related to coaching and recruiting athletes.
Prerequisites: ENGL 110C
SMGT 421 Legal Aspects in Recreation and Sport Management (3 Credit Hours)
This course presents an overview of the increasing effect the law is having on amateur athletics, professional sports and recreation programs.
Prerequisites: SMGT 214 with a grade of C- or better and junior standing
SMGT 432 Sport Facility and Event Management (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides an examination of the principles and practices of sport facility and event management.  Special emphasis will be placed on management functions related to facility planning and supervision, financing, site design, public relations, security, operations, maintenance, programming, box office operations and concessions.  This course is designed to introduce students to principles and practices of planning, budgeting, operating, scheduling, managing, and evaluating events in the sport industry.  Students will acquire an in-depth knowledge about the specialized field of event management and become familiar with management techniques and strategies required for successful promotion, implementation and evaluation of special events within a sport context.
Prerequisites: SMGT 214 with a grade of C- or better and junior standing
SMGT 450W Ethics and Morality in Sport (3 Credit Hours)
This writing intensive course offers an introduction to ethics and morality within the context of sports. It examines the values of sport and the basis for ethical decision making.  Readings, case studies and class discussion are used to explore the moral significance of sport.  This course is designed to foster critical thinking skills and to improve written and verbal communication skills through analysis of philosophical and ethical issues associated with sport.
Prerequisites: SMGT 214 with a grade of C- or better, a grade of C or better in ENGL 110C and ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C and Junior standing
SMGT 455 Sport in Contemporary Society (3 Credit Hours)
Discusses the phenomenon of sport as it represents one of the most pervasive social institutions today.  The major theme of this course is to demonstrate how sport reflects and enforces the beliefs, values, and ideologies of society.  Emphasis is placed on changing attitudes and current trends in the world of sport.  The course will be taught from sociological and philosophical perspectives.
Prerequisites: SMGT 214 with a grade of C- or better, and junior standing
SMGT 456/556 Sport Psychology (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines psychological theories and research related to sport and exercise behavior.  The course is designed to introduce students to the field by providing a broad overview of topics associated with sport and exercise psychology.
Prerequisites: ENGL 110C
SMGT 460/560 Sport and Social Justice (3 Credit Hours)
The class is a comprehensive survey of the historical interrelationship between sports and civil rights movements in the United States, emphasizing the African American experience. Through  popular and academic text and documentary films, students will examine the role that sport has played in raising consciousness about racial issues, and how participation and spectatorship influence attitudes about race.
Prerequisites: SMGT 214 or instructor permission
SMGT 468 Sport Management Internship (6-12 Credit Hours)
Culminating field-based experience required for all students with a major in sport management.  Students will work with faculty in securing a placement with a sport-related organization to apply the knowledge from the classroom to real-world experiences.  Internship site must be approved by the internship coordinator.  240-480 clock hours are required depending on the credit awarded.
Prerequisites: Completion of all coursework, a C- in SMGT 369 , a GPA of 2.0 in the major, and instructor permission
SMGT 495/595 Topics in Sport Management (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides an opportunity for in-depth study of selected topics in sport management.
SMGT 497 Independent Study in Sport Management (1-3 Credit Hours)
Individualized instruction to include research, specialized studies, or other scholarly writing.
Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor
SMGT 556 Sport Psychology (3 Credit Hours)
Study of the psychological bases of coaching strategies and methodologies. Emphasis is placed on applying knowledge in field settings.
SMGT 560 Sport and Social Justice (3 Credit Hours)
The class is a comprehensive survey of the historical interrelationship between sports and civil rights movements in the United States, emphasizing the African American experience. Through popular and academic text and documentary films, we will examine the role that sport has played in raising consciousness about racial issues, and how participation and spectatorship influence attitudes about race.
SMGT 595 Topics in Sport Management (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides an opportunity for in-depth study of selected topics in sport management.
Pre- or corequisite: Permission from the instructor
SMGT 636 Research Problems in Sport Management (3 Credit Hours)
Practice in the use of statistical and analytical techniques in solving problems in sport management; supervised student research.
Prerequisites: HMS 635 or FOUN 612 ; taken in the last semester of graduate work
SMGT 652 Facility Management for Sport, Recreation and Entertainment (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the principles of facility operation for sport, recreation, and entertainment events. It will provide students with an understanding of the unique challenges and opportunities commonly faced by facility managers and how to effectively manage a sport facility. Students will analyze current research related to planning, funding, and operating facilities for sport, recreation, and entertainment. Sport Management program.
Prerequisites: Must be a degree seeking student admitted into the M.S
SMGT 653 Sponsorship and Event Planning (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the theory and practice of securing sponsorships and planning events. Students will analyze partnerships created between sport events and corporate sponsors. In addition, students will gain experience in planning and implementing a sport or leisure event. Sport Management program.
Prerequisites: Must be a degree seeking student admitted into the M.S
SMGT 668 Internship in Sport Management (6 Credit Hours)
Designed to provide detailed practical experience (400 clock hours) in a sport management field setting. Sport Management program.
Prerequisites: Must be a degree seeking student admitted into the M.S
SMGT 695 Topics in Sport Management (1-3 Credit Hours)
Selected topic courses in Sport Management. Sport Management program.
Prerequisites: Must be a degree seeking student admitted into the M.S
SMGT 697 Independent Study in Sports Management (1-3 Credit Hours)
Individualized instruction to include research, specialized studies, or other scholarly writing. Sport Management program.
Prerequisites: Must be a degree seeking student admitted into the M.S
SMGT 698 Thesis Research in Sport Management (3-6 Credit Hours)
Students work independently with a faculty member to conduct research for their thesis on a topic related to sport management.
Prerequisites: Permission of the advisor and committee
SMGT 699 Thesis in Sport Management (3-6 Credit Hours)
Students work independently with a faculty member to complete their thesis on a topic related to sport management.
Prerequisites: Permission of the advisor and committee
SMGT 738 Sport Finance (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to examine the principles and practices of financial management in diverse sport service settings. This course will explore the basic concepts of financial planning and analysis required to effectively manage a successful sport operation. The concepts covered in this course include finance, economics, accounting, and general business practices. The course is intended to offer a broad perspective of sport finance along with the basic skills associated with fiscal planning and management. Students will gain an understanding of the core principles associated with the financial management of sport enterprises. Sport Management program.
Prerequisites: Must be a degree seeking student admitted into the M.S
SMGT 746 Strategic Marketing in Sport (3 Credit Hours)
This course will familiarize the student with theoretical and practical aspects of sport marketing including the dynamic nature of sport and the importance of branding. Through lecture and case-study analysis, the course will provide students with an understanding of the importance of marketing and consumer behavior theory and fundamentals specific to strategic marketing in the sport industry. Sport Management program.
Prerequisites: Must be a degree seeking student admitted into the M.S
SMGT 750 Ethics in Sport Management (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide students with an understanding of ethics and morals and how they apply in sport management settings. Teleological and deontological theories of ethics are examined with special application made to sport environments. Models of moral development, ethical decision making, and codes of ethics are emphasized. Sport Management program.
Prerequisites: Must be a degree seeking student admitted into the M.S
SMGT 755 Social Issues in Sport (3 Credit Hours)
The course will examine the nature and scope of sport from sociological, historical, economic, and philosophical perspectives. Special emphasis will be placed on studying selected issues and topics that impact sport managers and their understanding of the role that sport plays in society. Sport Management program.
Prerequisites: Must be a degree seeking student admitted into the M.S
SMGT 760 Sport Law (3 Credit Hours)
This course will examine the theory and practice of sport law as it relates to the management and supervision of sport and recreation facilities, programs, participants, spectators and events. Sport Management program.
Prerequisites: Must be a degree seeking student admitted into the M.S
SMGT 775 Management and Leadership in Sport (3 Credit Hours)
This course will examine various management principles as they apply to sport settings. Special emphasis will be placed on studying leadership theories, human resource management, strategic planning, decision making, problem-solving, and employee motivation. Sport Management program.
Prerequisites: Must be a degree seeking student admitted into the M.S
SMGT 780 Sport Analytics (3 Credit Hours)
This course will examine the theory, development, and application of analytics in sport. Students will learn about the application of analytics in sport for purposes of evaluating player performance, team management, market segmentation, pricing, and other areas in sport industry operations. Analytics includes the inclusive use of data, statistical and quantitative analysis, explanatory and predictive models, and fact-based decision making. Sport Management program.
Prerequisites: Must be a degree-seeking student admitted into the M.S
SMGT 785 Sport Entrepreneurship (3 Credit Hours)
This course will introduce students to various aspects of sport entrepreneurship ranging from development of an idea for a sport business to the formulation of a comprehensive sport business plan. Sport Management program.
Prerequisites: Must be a degree-seeking student admitted into the M.S
SMGT 795 Topics in Sport Management (1-3 Credit Hours)
Selected topic courses in sport management. Sport Management program.
Prerequisites: Must be a degree seeking student admitted into the M.S
SMGT 838 Sport Finance (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to examine the principles and practices of financial management in diverse sport service settings. This course will explore the basic concepts of financial planning and analysis required to effectively manage a successful sport operation. The concepts covered in this course include finance, economics, accounting, and general business practices. The course is intended to offer a broad perspective of sport finance along with the basic skills associated with fiscal planning and management. Students will gain an understanding of the core principles associated with the financial management of sport enterprises.
Prerequisites: Must be a degree seeking student admitted into the Human Movement Sciences doctoral program
SMGT 846 Strategic Marketing in Sport (3 Credit Hours)
This course will familiarize the student with theoretical and practical aspects of sport marketing, including the dynamic nature of sport and the importance of branding. Through lecture and case-study analysis, the course will provide students with an understanding of the importance of marketing and consumer behavior theory and fundamentals specific to strategic marketing in the sport industry.
Prerequisites: Must be a degree seeking student admitted into the Human Movement Sciences doctoral program
SMGT 850 Ethics in Sport Management (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide students with an understanding of ethics and morals and how they apply in sport management settings. Teleological and deontological theories of ethics are examined with special application made to sport environments. Models of moral development, ethical decision making, and codes of ethics are emphasized.
Prerequisites: Must be a degree seeking student admitted into the Human Movement Sciences doctoral program
SMGT 855 Social Issues in Sport (3 Credit Hours)
The course will examine the nature and scope of sport from sociological, historical, economic, and philosophical perspectives. Special emphasis will be placed on studying selected issues and topics that impact sport managers and their understanding of the role that sport plays in society.
Prerequisites: Must be a degree seeking student admitted into the Human Movement Sciences doctoral program
SMGT 860 Sport Law (3 Credit Hours)
This course will examine the theory and practice of sport law as it relates to the management and supervision of sport and recreation facilities, programs, participants, spectators and events.
Prerequisites: Must be a degree seeking student admitted into the Human Movement Sciences doctoral program
SMGT 875 Management and Leadership in Sport (3 Credit Hours)
This course will examine various management principles as they apply to sport settings.  Special emphasis will be placed on studying leadership theories, human resource management, strategic planning, decision making, problem-solving, and employee motivation.
Prerequisites: Must be a degree seeking student admitted into the Human Movement Sciences doctoral program
SMGT 880 Sport Analytics (3 Credit Hours)
This course will examine the theory, development, and application of analytics in sport. Students will learn about the application of analytics in sport for purposes of evaluating player performance, team management, market segmentation, pricing, and other areas in sport industry operations. Analytics includes the inclusive use of data, statistical and quantitative analysis, explanatory and predictive models, and fact-based decision making.
Prerequisites: Must be a degree seeking student admitted into the Human Movement Sciences doctoral program
SMGT 885 Sport Entrepreneurship (3 Credit Hours)
This course will introduce students to various aspects of sport entrepreneurship ranging from development of an idea for a sport business to the formulation of a comprehensive sport business plan.
Prerequisites: Must be a degree seeking student admitted into the Human Movement Sciences doctoral program
SMGT 895 Topics in Sport Management (1-3 Credit Hours)
Selected topic courses in sport management.
Prerequisites: Must be a degree seeking student admitted into the Human Movement Sciences doctoral program
Search catalog
