Procedures For MEM Portable Media Courses
Procedures for MEM Portable Media Courses
Registration, tuition, course materials, and exams are handled differently for military students taking Engineering Management (MEM) courses by portable media.
CITI Training: Responsible Conduct of Research for Engineers
All ODU graduate students must complete the Collaborative Institutional Training Initiative (CITI) training on responsible research. MEM students will take the Responsible Conduct of Research for Engineers specifically. Learn more about the CITI program at their website >
You must complete this training during your first 12 credits of enrollment at ODU. It is free for registered ODU students. Paid CME/CEU credits are not required to successfully complete the modules. You will use your ODU University Identification Number (UIN) to register for the training.
After you complete the modules, your student records will be updated automatically. If you have questions or issues, please contact the MEM Advisor at mempm@odu.edu .
For registration instructions, please visit ODU's Office of Research web page.
Course Registration
A new 90-day term for every course starts each Monday. It is recommended that students register for no more than two courses concurrently. Each course is a three credit hour offering (except for the one-credit capstone course) and may be completed in any sequence.
All MEM Portable Media students must register for MEM courses through ODUGlobal's form . You will be registered within 10 business days (usually sooner).
Tuition
Your bill is payable to ODU upon registration for self-pay, certified GI Bill® Chapters 30, 31, and 35 courses, and those approved for TA offset. You will be registered for courses within 10 business days of submitting your information on the MEM course registration form (usually sooner).
This institution is approved to offer GI Bill® educational benefits by the Virginia State Approving Agency. GI Bill® is a registered trademark of the U.S Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). More information about education benefits offered by VA is available at the official U.S. government Webs site at http://www.benefis.va.gov/gibill
Please check your ODU email regularly. All information on your tuition balance, payment deadlines, posted payments, and related announcements will be sent to your ODU email account. You should also check LEO Online to verify your registration, find tuition payment deadlines, and make payments.
It is your responsibility to ensure that your account is paid and that all documents (e.g., tuition aid, GI Bill® benefits, etc.) are received by ODU's Office of Finance in a timely manner. If tuition is not received when due, you may be liable for late/penalty fees.
If there is a problem, please immediately contact the Office of Finance:
1-800-224-1450 (toll-free) or 757-683-3030, Fax: 757-683-5407
or contact the MEM Advisor at mempm@odu.edu .
More Details on Military Tuition Rates, Financial Aid, and Using Tuition Assistance
Textbooks and Course Materials
MEM Portable Media students are responsible for ordering their course materials through the Old Dominion University bookstore and installing the VLC Player to view course videos.
Deploying MEM students are encouraged to obtain their course materials prior to deploying. Contractors no longer deliver these course materials.
To order your materials, click here to visit the ODU Bookstore web site and follow these steps:
Click the ENTER COURSES button on the right. (Do not use your UIN.)
Program: Select "Navy College or MEM".
Term: The current academic year should already be displayed.
Division: Select MEM.
Course: Choose the number of your course -- for example, choose "613" for ENMA 613.
Section: MEM should already be selected.
Click FIND MATERIALS.
The next page will list all course materials for the courses you selected. Click the checkbox next to each item you want to order. Then click the ADD x ITEM TO BAG button at the bottom right.
This book ordering process may update -- we will post any changes here as needed. If you have any issues finding or ordering your materials, please contact us at mempm@odu.edu .
VLC Player Software
To watch the videos in your course materials, you may need to download and install VLC Player, a free and open source media player. It is compatible with Windows, Mac, Linux, iOS, Android, and more.
We recommend making a playlist in VLC using all the content in a course folder—this will make it easier to navigate your materials.
Download VLC Player
Exams
All MEM Portable Media students are required to designate a proctor in order to complete exams. The procedures for designating and using a proctor are very important. Please share them with your proctor and observe all honor code requirements.
NCPACE students: Utilize your command ESO or command designated representative as a proctor.
All other students: Authorized proctors include faculty members, employees at college/university testing centers, employees at military education centers, or military civilian supervisors who provide training/administer exams as part of their duties. A proctor cannot be your relative or a currently enrolled student.
There are three basic steps to designate a proctor:
Complete the form with your proctor.
Email, mail, or fax the completed form to the specified Old Dominion University address/fax number.
ODU will mail exams to the proctor after the Proctor Request Form is received.
Please see MEM Proctor & Student Guidelines for the form and detailed instructions for proctors.
Submission of Materials to be Graded
MEM Portable Media students turn in their completed examination materials to their designated proctor, who returns materials to be graded directly to the University by traceable mail no later than 30 days after the term end date (the three-month term selected). Proctors should retain a copy of completed materials in the event that the package is lost in the mail.
Delays and Extensions
If there is a delay or a need for an extension, students should send an email to the MEM Advisor at mempm@odu.edu to request an extension. Sending your request to both email addresses will ensure that it is seen and acted upon in a timely manner.
Old Dominion University
Gornto Hall, Norfolk, VA 23529
Footer
