Chapter Standings
Chapter Standings
As a way to provide a resource to both internal and external partners related to chapter standing and achievements, we provide the most recent chapter statistics through a Fraternity & Sorority Life Score Card.
Understanding Chapter Standings
Good Standing
The organization is current with the Office of Student Engagement & Traditions and Fraternity & Sorority Life requirements, is not under review by the Office of Student Conduct and Academic Integrity, and has no pending sanctions for completion.
Probation
As a result of being found responsible for a violation of the Code of Student Conduct, the organization's fitness to continue at the University is evaluated. If an organization is found "in violation" of another violation of the Code of Student Conduct while on organizational probation, more severe sanctions may be imposed. A student organization found responsible for a violation of the Code of Student Conduct may also have educational or restorative sanctions or loss of activities/privileges (including, but not limited to: social activities; intramural competition; organizational competition; Homecoming; eligibility to receive any University award or honorary recognition; privilege to occupy a position of leadership or responsibility in any University registered student organization governing body; or ability to represent the University in an official capacity or position).
Suspension
While on organizational suspension, the organization loses its University recognition and/or registration for a period of time. While an organization is suspended, the use of University resources or participation as an organization in any University activities or events is prohibited.
Unrecognized Groups
Unrecognized Groups are organizations that are no longer recognized by the University, a severance of the organization's relationship with ODU.
Note: In some cases, this is as a result of their voluntary disaffiliation from the University or due to the National office revoking their recognition. The organization is no longer under the sanction of the University.
Chapters
Current ODU Recognition: Good Standing
Inter(National) Recognition: Good Standing
