Industrial Training Certificate
BA or BS to MBA (Master of Business Administration) Linked Program
The linked BA/MBA or BS/MBA program is an early entry to the MBA program of study.  The early-entry program is designed for well qualified non-business undergraduate ODU students to start their MBA program prior to completing their undergraduate degree.  Well qualified non-business undergraduate students may take MBA-level courses as early as three semesters prior to graduation and count up to 12 graduate credits toward their undergraduate degree.  Students participating in the early-entry program must earn a minimum of 150 credit hours (120 discrete credit hours for the undergraduate degree and 30 discrete credit hours for the graduate degree).  Early-entry program students should carefully consider their undergraduate degree program requirements when planning their course of study.  Students in the early-entry program work in close consultation with the MBA Program Office and should refer to information in the Strome College of Business section in the graduate catalog to develop an individualized plan of study based on the required coursework.
BA or BS to MPA (Master of Public Administration) Linked Program
The linked BA/MPA or BS/MPA program provides qualified Old Dominion University undergraduate students with the opportunity to earn a master's degree in public administration while taking credits in the MPA program as an undergraduate student.  The program is designed for highly motivated students with the desire to immediately continue their education after the bachelor's degree.  The program is especially relevant to individuals seeking to work (or currently working) in the public or non-profit sectors, but is suitable for students from any undergraduate major.  Graduate courses may be taken during the fall and spring semester of the student's senior undergraduate year.  Up to 12 graduate credits can count toward both the undergraduate and graduate degree and can meet upper-level General Education requirements. After receiving the undergraduate degree, a student will continue with the MPA program, taking MPA courses until completing the required 39 credit hours. Students in the linked program must earn a minimum of 150 credit hours (120 discrete credit hours for the undergraduate degree and 30 discrete credit hours for the graduate degree).
Requirements for admission to the graduate program can be found in the School of Public Service section of the Graduate Catalog .  For additional information, please contact the School of Public Service in the Strome College of Business.
Centers and Institutes
https://www.odu.edu/eps/advising/undergraduate
Rob Batchelder, Director of Advising 1107 Education Building  (757) 683-4789
The Career and Advising Resource Center (CARC) provides career and academic advising services for students in the Darden College of Education and Professional Studies. Students who visit CARC are encouraged to plan for their academic program and investigate career opportunities through exploration and engagement with an academic advisor. CARC provides students access to university resources including the Center for Career & Leadership Development and Student Enrollment, Engagement & Services. CARC advisors believe in a collaborative partnership to maximize the potential of each student, and are available to answer any questions as students discover their academic and career plans.
Office of Clinical Experiences
https://www.odu.edu/oce
Jennessa Libby-Reynolds, Director 1107 Education Building  (757) 683-3348
The Office of Clinical Experiences is committed to effectively and efficiently supporting all students in the Darden College of Education and Professional Studies who engage in field experiences. The services provided assist in preparing students for their professions in education, industry, service and clinical environments.
Search catalog
