Psychology
Overview
The College of Sciences is committed to providing graduate programs of the highest quality. Our degree programs are designed to prepare students for careers in the sciences and to lay broad foundations for specialized training in these fields of knowledge. We offer a strong academic environment where students can grow and discover. Students learn in the classroom, in the laboratory, in the field, and around the world.
The college is comprised of the Departments of Biological Sciences, Chemistry and Biochemistry, Computer Science, Mathematics and Statistics, Ocean and Earth Sciences, Physics, and Psychology. The Departments of Biological Sciences, Chemistry and Biochemistry, Mathematics and Statistics, Ocean and Earth Sciences, and Physics cooperate with the Darden College of Education and Professional Studies to provide the necessary courses for a Master's of Science in Education in each of the respective fields.
Programs
The College of Sciences has developed graduate programs in the basic and applied sciences that meet the needs of the  region, the state, the nation, and the world. These programs address a variety of challenges, ranging from basic research to the quest for solutions to contemporary problems in science. The importance of these challenges is reflected by the more than $15 million in research and training grant expenditures generated by the college. The college provides the nation with much-needed graduate programs in broad fields of concentration leading to both master’s and doctoral degrees. Related program emphases within the major areas of study are designed to meet the professional needs of the students and communities served.
The college’s faculty of 200 highly skilled professional educators is devoted to guiding students toward an assimilation of the most current scientific theories, research, and practices.
College Financial Aid
The College of Sciences has established competitive teaching and research assistantship stipends that are distributed by each department. In addition, each department has fellowship and tuition exemption funds available for competitive distribution.
Dominion Graduate Scholars
Programs in the College of Sciences offer a number of very competitive awards for graduate students newly admitted into Ph.D. programs. Some of these are Dominion Graduate Scholar research assistantships that carry a minimum stipend of $22,000 for a the academic year and full tuition. These Dominion Scholars must be enrolled in at least nine hours of graduate courses each semester, and three graduate credits during the summer to meet institutional eligibility requirements.
All admission materials are considered as a part of the evaluation process. Students apply to specific graduate programs and may inquire about the Dominion Graduate Scholar research assistantship. After a student has been appointed to a Dominion Scholar research assistantship, the graduate program director will submit a copy of their letter-of-offer, letter-of-acceptance and the awardee's credential summary.
Minimum criteria for eligibility are as follows:
GRE scores: 310 combined verbal and quantitative, and at least a 4.0 on the analytical writing section.
GRE scores (older version): 1200 combined verbal and quantitative, or 1300 in any two of verbal, quantitative, or analytical.
Undergraduate GPA of 3.20 overall and 3.50 in the major, out of 4.00 maximum.
Evidence of research aptitude by undergraduate thesis/research, publications, M.S. thesis and/or letters of reference.
Information concerning the Dominion Graduate Scholar Program may be obtained from the graduate program director for the program of interest.
Written acknowledgment from a faculty member agreeing to serve as the student’s major advisor, if the student is accepted.
Departments
