DNTH 395 Topics in Dental Hygiene Practice (1-6 Credit Hours)
Selected topics in dental hygiene vary by semester. (offered fall, spring, summer)
Prerequisites: permission of the instructor
DNTH 397 Independent Study in Dental Hygiene (1-6 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic selected under direction of a faculty member.  (offered fall, spring, summer)
Prerequisites: permission of the instructor
DNTH 410 Dental Hygiene Theory IV (3 Credit Hours)
Study of the psychosocial, physical and oral characteristics of patients with special needs.  Emphasis is on the care and clinical management of the following patients:  cognitively, developmentally and physically challenged, aged, pregnant, epileptic, diabetic, cancer, AIDS, chemically dependent and the blind and deaf. (offered fall)
Prerequisites: DNTH 305 , DNTH 306 , and DNTH 316
DNTH 411 Dental Hygiene Services IV (6 Credit Hours)
Clinical experience in the on-campus supervised clinic.  Continued development of clinical proficiency and ethical, evidence-based decision making in providing comprehensive preventive and therapeutic oral health services.  Emphasis is on intra/interprofessional clinical application and development of competencies for the treatment of diverse, special needs and periodontally involved patients using the dental hygiene process of care.  (offered fall)
Corequisites: DNTH 410
DNTH 412W/512 Perspectives on Dental Hygiene Practice (3 Credit Hours)
Course is designed for the licensed dental hygienist who seeks to maintain an awareness of changing trends, perspectives, evidence-based interventions and technologies in dental hygiene, health, and society that influence the dental hygiene process of care. This is a writing intensive course. (Offered summer)
Prerequisites: grade of C or better in ENGL 110C and ENGl 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C and admission into the dental hygiene program
DNTH 413 Community Oral Health Planning (3 Credit Hours)
Introduction to the principles of dental public health, health literacy, oral epidemiology, evidenced-based prevention and control of oral disease on a population basis.  Emphasis is on program assessment, planning, implementation, and evaluation for the development of community-based dental programs.  This course prepares students for the role of oral health educator, client advocate and resource person in community settings.  (offered fall)
Prerequisites: DNTH 305 , DNTH 306 or permission of the instructor
DNTH 414/514 Educational Concepts for the Health Professional I (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to explore various educational concepts, principles and methods of teaching for adults. Students will learn to present educational information to a diverse client population, in a variety of settings, in an ethical and professional manner. Topics include, but are not limited to, objectives, planning, implementation and evaluation of instruction; instructional strategies; delivery models; presentation skills; and techniques for communicating health information.
Prerequisites: admission to the dental hygiene program
DNTH 415/515 Research Methods in the Health Sciences (3 Credit Hours)
Designed to develop skills in scientific methods, evidence based decision making and critical analysis of research findings. Emphasis on types of research, levels of evidence, problem selection and hypothesis writing, research planning and design, data collection and measuring techniques, analysis and interpretation of data, research proposal writing and computer application.  A written research proposal is required for graduate credit.(offered fall)
Prerequisites: STAT 130M
DNTH 416/516 Administrative Leadership and Professional Development (3 Credit Hours)
A study of current trends that influence the profession of dental hygiene including oral health care delivery, manpower, financing mechanisms, quality improvement, third party payers, professional associations,  regulatory agencies and legislation.  Emphasis is on ethical, political, and legal issues as they relate to the dental hygiene profession. offered spring)
Prerequisites: Admission to the dental hygiene program
DNTH 417W Dental Hygiene Theory V (3 Credit Hours)
Designed to transition students into diverse employment settings nationally and globally.  Emphasis is on written communication skills, practice management, working in multicultural settings, selecting an employment setting, values clarification, resume writing, interview techniques, networking, ethical dilemmas and cross-cultural competencies necessary for contemporary healthcare environments.  Various national and international career opportunities are explored. This is a writing intensive course.
Corequisites: DNTH 418
DNTH 418 Dental Hygiene Services V (6 Credit Hours)
Clinical experience in the on-campus supervised clinic.  Continued development of proficiency and ethical, evidence-based decision making in providing comprehensive preventive and therapeutic oral health services within the dental hygiene process of care.  Emphasis is on intra/interprofessional development of competencies for the treatment of periodontally involved, special needs and diverse patients. (offered spring)
Corequisites: DNTH 417W
DNTH 419 Community Oral Health Practice (3 Credit Hours)
Interprofessional service-learning and internship experiences designed to prepare students to function as oral health practitioners, educators, client advocates and resource persons in community health settings. Emphasis is on providing evidenced-based educational, preventive, and therapeutic services for vulnerable and underserved populations including low-income, geriatric, pediatric, institutionalized, and cognitively, developmentally, and physically challenged individuals. Design and delivery of a poster session is required. (offered spring; varies days and times)
Prerequisites: DNTH 413
DNTH 440T/540 Telehealthcare Technology (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the concept, global impact, and trends in telehealthcare technology on the client/patient, multidisciplinary practitioners, and various healthcare systems.  Emphasis is on effective evidence-based decision making to reduce errors in patient care, promote care in remote or underserved geographical areas, and the ability to retrieve and evaluate healthcare information that improves access to quality, cost effective health care. (Offered spring)
Prerequisites: sophomore standing and permission of the instructor
DNTH 450 International Dental Hygiene (1-3 Credit Hours)
International locations are determined by the School of Dental Hygiene in conjunction with the Office of Study Abroad.  Program participation requires approval from the School of Dental Hygiene and the Office of Study Abroad.  Provides an on-location international experience in oral care delivery, practice and regulation, and dental hygiene education.  Students will be required to give presentations, review the dental care delivery system, and explore how the cultural beliefs and practices affect oral health, dental care seeking behaviors, and the oral health status of the population.  Orientations will be conducted prior to travel.
Prerequisites: DNTH 316
DNTH 451 Ergonomics and Exercises for Static Posture Occupations (1 Credit Hour)
This active participation course is designed for persons who work in static posture professions (e.g., dental hygienists, laboratory and computer office personnel) and who seek to practice ergonomic body mechanics and exercise therapies to prevent musculoskeletal disorders and repetitive strain injuries. Topics include biomechanics, creating an ergonomically sound work space, alternative sitting and standing techniques during clinical care, types of disorders and injuries, risk management, comprehension and demonstration of full body exercises with emphasis on core strength training, and self-monitoring. (offered online summer session only)
Prerequisites: permission of instructor
DNTH 495 Topics in Dental Hygiene (1-3 Credit Hours)
Seminars on selected topics in dental hygiene. Topics vary by semester.  (offered fall, spring, summer)
Prerequisites: permission of the instructor
DNTH 497/597 Independent Study in Dental Hygiene (1-6 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic selected under direction of a faculty member.  (Offered fall, spring, summer)
Prerequisites: permission of instructor
DNTH 498 Directed Research in Dental Hygiene (1-6 Credit Hours)
Supervised research on a specific problem in dental hygiene.  Regular meetings with faculty and a written/oral report are required.
Prerequisites: Permission of instructor
