Occupational Safety Certificate
EVMS – Physician Assistant, Early Assurance Program
ODU and Eastern Virginia Medical School have entered into an Early Assurance Program (EAP).  ODU applicants meeting certain criteria are eligible for early assurance into the EVMS Master of Physician Assistant (MPA) program.  To be eligible to apply through the EAP program, students must meet and maintain the following criteria.
I. INITIAL ELIGIBILITY
To be eligible for the Early Assurance Program (EAP), a student must:
Be at least in their Junior year at the University and with only one year left to complete in their undergraduate education.  Interested students should meet with the University EAP Advisor during their freshman year to express interest in the EAP;
Meet citizenship requirements of the program;
Meet all University institutional and degree requirements to continue as a student in good standing;
Maintain an overall (cumulative) GPA of 3.25 or better, on a 4.0 scale;
Have satisfactorily completed seven of eight prerequisite courses at the University as indicated on the program’s EAP website by the time of application without withdrawing from or repeating any course(s) used to satisfy the prerequisites;
Be able to accumulate 500 hours of patient care experience before being accepted into the program;
Have no honor and/or academic code violations, as applicable, or other code of conduct violations; and
Have satisfactorily completed the online personal and professional characteristics assessment (Computer-based Assessment for Sampling Personal Characteristics).
II.  MAINTAINING ELIGIBILITY
The guarantee of admission through the EAP is contingent upon the student’s continued eligibility in the EAP to include:
Carrying a sufficient credit load during the remaining regular academic semesters to fulfill University undergraduate degree requirements by the graduation date specified in the student’s application.  Should a student be unable to complete their undergraduate degree in the original timeframe specified, the student would be dismissed from the EAP, but it would not affect eligibility to apply to the program at a later time;
Making significant progress towards achievement of the individually specified goals outlined on the Healthcare Experience Plan of Completion (HCE POC) submitted with the student’s application;
Maintaining contact each semester with the University EAP Advisor during the students’ senior year and the program after graduation;
Maintaining an overall (cumulative) GPA of 3.25 or better with consistent academic performance;
Making progress towards accumulation of additional hours to meet a goal of 1,000 hours of patient care experience before matriculating in the program as detailed in the HCE POC;
Completing any specific matriculation conditions set forth by the program (e.g., official transcripts confirming date of degree completion, a criminal background check prior to matriculation, indication of ability to meet the Technical Standards of the program, and submission of all health requirements; and
Remaining free of any actions or conduct that would cause the Admissions Committee to question a student's suitability to pursue a career in medicine.  These include, but are not limited to, misdemeanor or felony convictions, academic dishonesty or other code of conduct violations, and/or unprofessional conduct in a health care or educational setting.
Courses
CYTO 403 Gynecological Screening Laboratory (3 Credit Hours)
Laboratory experience in the screening of gynecological smears.
Prerequisites: Acceptance into the Cytotechnology Program and/or permission of the cytotechnology program director
Pre- or corequisite: CYTO 405 and CYTO 415
CYTO 404 General Pathology (3 Credit Hours)
This course is an overview of general disease processes and causes in the human.  All body systems will be covered including respiratory, gastrointestinal, circulatory, nervous, reproductive, and urinary.  Aging, dietary, and stress factors will be discussed in the disease process.  Bacteria, fungi, and viruses will be discussed in general and for each body system.  Neoplasms will be covered for each body site. This course will be of benefit to anyone interested in diseases of the human body or entering the medical field.  (cross listed with MLS 401 )
Prerequisites: junior standing
Pre- or corequisite: BIOL 250 and BIOL 251 or equivalent
CYTO 405 Normal Gynecological Cytology (3 Credit Hours)
Introduction to histological and cytological features of the normal female genital tract with emphasis on normal and non-neoplastic abnormalities.  Principles of cytological diagnostic techniques will be discussed.
Prerequisites: Acceptance into the Cytotechnology Program or permission of program director
Pre- or corequisite: CYTO 403
CYTO 407 Clinical Histology (3 Credit Hours)
This course consists of the systematic study of cellular components as well as the grouping/organization of tissues into major 'organ' systems. Additionally, the cellular basis of examples of human diseases will be studied. Microscopic and virtual identification and morphology of cells, tissues, and organ substructures will be emphasized.  This course will be of benefit to anyone interested in diseases of the human body or entering the medical field.
Prerequisites: permission of the instructor
CYTO 415 Abnormal Gynecological Cytology (4 Credit Hours)
Introduction to diagnostic cytological techniques and pathology of the female reproductive tract with emphasis on premalignant and malignant changes.
Pre- or corequisite: CYTO 403 and CYTO 405
CYTO 424 Respiratory Cytology (4 Credit Hours)
Principles of diagnostic cytology and pathology of the respiratory tract, including benign conditions, inflammatory and infectious diseases, premalignant conditions and primary and metastatic malignancies.
Prerequisites: Admission to the cytotechnology program
Pre- or corequisite: CYTO 405 and CYTO 415
CYTO 428W Cytopreparatory Techniques and Procedures (3 Credit Hours)
Introduction to collection, processing and preparation of cytologic specimens from all body sites and general laboratory procedures and regulations.  A portion of this course consists of practical experience acquired in the laboratory.  Practical experience will be perfected during clinical site rotations throughout the Cytotechnology Program. Students will learn how to properly write lab reports and papers related to health science fields. This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: Pre-admission to the Cytotechnology Program or Program Director permission; completion of ENGL 110C and ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C with a grade of C or higher
CYTO 430 Cytopreparation & Ancillary Techniques (4 Credit Hours)
The course offers an introduction to cytopreparation and ancillary diagnostic techniques.  Upon completion, students should be able to understand the principles of cytology preparatory techniques as well as fixation and staining theory and use. In addition, students will learn the application and interpretation of various special and immunohistochemical stains, and understand the various molecular tests available for use in cytopathology.
Pre- or corequisite: CYTO 403 , CYTO 405 and CYTO 415
CYTO 442 Gastro-Intestinal Cytology (2 Credit Hours)
Study of the pathology and cytology of the gastro-intestinal tract, including the oral cavity, esophagus, stomach, colon, and rectum.  Emphasis on normal conditions, benign inflammatory, infections, parasitic conditions, gastric ulcers, premalignant and malignant lesions.
Pre- or corequisite: CYTO 405 and CYTO 415
CYTO 444 Genitourinary Cytology (2 Credit Hours)
Study of the pathology and cytology of the genitourinary tract, with emphasis in normal conditions, benign inflammatory and infectious conditions, crystals, premalignant and malignant lesions.
Pre- or corequisite: CYTO 405 and CYTO 415
CYTO 445 Breast Cytology (2 Credit Hours)
Study of pathology and cytology of the breast, with emphasis on benign, inflammatory conditions,  premalignant and malignant disease in both breast smears and fine needle aspirations.
Pre- or corequisite: CYTO 405 and CYTO 415
CYTO 446 Body Fluids Cytology (3 Credit Hours)
Study of the pleural, peritoneal and pericardial cavity fluids, synovial and cerebral spinal fluids, with emphasis on benign, inflammatory conditions, and primary and metastatic malignancies.
Pre- or corequisite: CYTO 405 and CYTO 415
CYTO 448 Non-Epithelial Cytology (1 Credit Hour)
Study of the pathology and cytology of non-epithelial lesions with emphasis on benign, inflammatory, and malignant conditions.
Prerequisites: Admission to the cytotechnology program
Pre- or corequisite: CYTO 405 , CYTO 415 , CYTO 424 , CYTO 444 , CYTO 445 , and CYTO 446
CYTO 456 Fine Needle Aspiration Cytology I (3 Credit Hours)
Study of specialized collection techniques, processing and diagnosis of fine needle aspirations from various body sites, including thyroid, liver, lymph nodes, pancreas, lung, mediastinum,  salivary gland, and ovary.  Clinical practical application of these principles will be continued at the clinical sites.
Prerequisites: CYTO 403 , CYTO 405 , CYTO 415 , and CYTO 428W
CYTO 457 Fine Needle Aspiration Cytology II (3 Credit Hours)
Study of specialized collection techniques, processing and diagnosis of fine needle aspirations from various body sites, including kidney, retroperitoneum, breast, soft tissue, bone, eye, central nervous system, and skin. Clinical practical application of these principles will be continued at the clinical sites.
Prerequisites: CYTO 403 , CYTO 405 , CYTO 415 , CYTO 424 , CYTO 428W , CYTO 445 , CYTO 446 , CYTO 448 , and CYTO 456
CYTO 458 Cytology Internship I (3 Credit Hours)
Directly supervised experience in a clinical setting:  includes evaluation of gynecologic  smears and study set assignments.  Students will be exposed to cytopreparatory techniques.
Pre- or corequisite: CYTO 405 and CYTO 415
CYTO 468 Cytology Internship II (4 Credit Hours)
Directly supervised experience in a clinical setting.  Includes evaluation of gynecologic and non-gynecologic specimen slides and study set assignments.  Students will pre-screen gynecologic and non-gynecologic smears and study set assignments.  Students will be exposed to cytopreparatory techniques.
Pre- or corequisite: CYTO 405 , CYTO 415 , CYTO 424 , CYTO 444 , CYTO 445 , and CYTO 446
CYTO 478 Cytology Internship III (8 Credit Hours)
Directly supervised experience in a clinical setting. Includes evaluation of gynecologic and non-gynecologic smears and study set assignments.  Students will be exposed to cytopreparatory techniques.
Prerequisites: Admission to the cytotechnology program
CYTO 495 Topics in Cytology (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent study of selected topics in clinical cytology. Review of cytologic specimens from various body sites
Prerequisites: permission of the program director
CYTO 497 Cytology Senior Seminar (1 Credit Hour)
Supervised experience consists of clinical cases and seminar presentations into current advances within the specialty of clinical cytology.  A student research project and oral presentation of current journal articles and the research paper are required.
Prerequisites: permission of the program director
CYTO 498 Topics (1-3 Credit Hours)
CYTO 499 Comprehensive Cytology Review (1 Credit Hour)
The course is a comprehensive review course that includes the review and study of the exfoliative and non-exfoliative (including fine needle aspirations) cytomorphologic features of neoplastic and non-neoplastic lesions of the female genital tract, respiratory tract, urinary tract, body fluids, lymph nodes, thyroid, salivary glands, pancreas and biliary tract, the diagnostic pitfalls associated with the various body sites, the appropriate use of ancillary techniques in diagnostic cytology, the principles of quality assurance, and the new developments in the field of cytopathology.
Health Sciences (HLSC)
HLSC 318 Principles of Nutrition (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed especially for those entering the health education or health care field, covering the physiology of each of the major body systems as a basis for understanding those aspects of its function that reflect the importance of various nutrients.
Prerequisites: CHEM 105N - CHEM 106N or CHEM 121N - CHEM 122N and CHEM 123N - CHEM 124N ; BIOL 240 , BIOL 241 , BIOL 250 or BIOL 251 , or permission of the instructor
HLSC 320 Health Equity and Disability Culture (3 Credit Hours)
This course will explore the history of health equity and disability and how prejudice and discrimination against people with disabilities impact health. Students will learn how to apply health equity frameworks, theories, and research to address disability-specific models of health disparities and to achieve health equity in populations with disabilities.
Prerequisites: RT 261 with a grade of C- or higher or PUBH 200 with a grade of C or higher or HLTH 120G with a grade of C or higher
HLSC 335 Population Health (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides a population-based approach to professional work in disease management, chronic care management and politics, in addition to students studying public health, health policy, quality and patient safety, health care administration, medicine, nursing, pharmacy, social work and other related clinical professions.
Prerequisites: RT 261 with a grade of C- or higher or PUBH 200 with a grade of C or higher or HLTH 120G with a grade of C or higher
HLSC 390 The U.S. Healthcare Delivery System (3 Credit Hours)
The uniqueness of the U.S. healthcare delivery system will be explored in terms of a systems framework and its complexity. The basic characteristics that differentiate the U.S. healthcare delivery system from that of other countries will be presented. An understanding of the U.S. health care system has specific implications for health services managers.
Prerequisites: RT 261 with a grade of C- or higher or PUBH 200 with a grade of C or higher or HLTH 120G with a grade of C or higher
HLSC 395 Topics in Health (1-3 Credit Hours)
Study of selected topics.
Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor
HLSC 405 Interprofessional Study Abroad on Global Health (1-3 Credit Hours)
This study abroad service learning course will introduce the student to the political, social, cultural, and ethical issues involved in prevention and health promotion globally. Students will travel to another country and learn the incidence/prevalence, morbidity/mortality, and identified public health problems in specific regions and countries.
Prerequisites: ENGL 110C
HLSC 425/525 Health Aspects of Aging (3 Credit Hours)
Identifies major issues and problems in meeting health care needs of the aged. Emphasis on role of social assets and supports in determining effects of life changes on the aging process.
Prerequisites: PUBH 200
HLSC 430W/530 Community Health Resources and Health Promotion (3 Credit Hours)
Designed to provide information about community health resources and health promotion theory. This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: ENGL 110C and ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C with a grade of C or better, and a major in Health Sciences-Health Services Administration or a minor in Community Health
HLSC 440/540 Finance and Budgeting in Healthcare (3 Credit Hours)
This course covers financial management functions in healthcare organizations including operating and capital budgeting processes along with budgeting and financial controls.
Prerequisites: Junior standing and a declared major in the BSHS Health Services Administration program
HLSC 445/545 Health Services Research Methods (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on health services research and its assessment abilities and application in health care and public health. Topics include the use of EXCEL, SAS, and SPSS to analyze data. An exploration of the issues and challenges of health services research for health related organizations and other organizations. Statistical procedures and practices will also be conducted.
Prerequisites: STAT 130M with a C or higher grade
HLSC 450/550 Public and Community Health Administration (3 Credit Hours)
A review of the principles and practice of administering public and community health organizations and programs at federal, state, and local levels. Constitutional, statutory and administrative bases for organizing and conducting public/community health programs will be discussed.
Prerequisites: A major in the BSHS Health Services Administration program,  BS in Public Health program, or minor in Community Health
HLSC 461/561 Managerial Epidemiology (3 Credit Hours)
This course will blend theory and application of epidemiology. This course will also provide a comprehensive introduction to epidemiology and explain how to use epidemiological concepts and tools to improve decisions about the management of health services.
Prerequisites: STAT 130M and a declared major in the BSHS Health Services Administration program or approval of the program director
HLSC 465/565 Policy and Politics of Health (3 Credit Hours)
This course will explore both health policy and the politics of health. Students will develop an understanding of the systematic and analytical framework for developing health and health care policy issues.
Prerequisites: A major in the BSHS Health Services Administration program or minor in Community Health
HLSC 468 Internship (1-3 Credit Hours)
The internship will allow a student new to the health administration field or public health field to complete a capstone internship to gain entry skills for a beginning career pathway in the profession. The course is intended to provide field experience and assimilation of the theoretical aspects learned in the coursework in a practical/work setting. A minimum of 200 hours is required for the 3-credit internship.
Prerequisites: Major in BS in Public Health or BSHS in Health Services Administration and senior standing
HLSC 475/575 Healthcare Marketing (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides a basic understanding of marketing in a health care setting. It will cover the following: the history of marketing in a health care setting, health care markets, marketing techniques, and leadership skills in managing and supporting the marketing efforts.
Prerequisites: A major in BSHS Health Services Administration or BS in Public Health
HLSC 480/580 Health Ethics and the Law (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides the students with a basic knowledge of health law and examines legal issues confronting health services administrators in various health care environments.
Prerequisites: A declared major in the BSHS Health Services Administration program
HLSC 485/585 Health Informatics (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on healthcare informatics (information systems) and applications in health care organizations. It provides an overview of health information system concepts, management, and integration of technology in healthcare organizations.
Prerequisites: Declared BSHS major
HLSC 495/595 Topics in Public/Community Health Administration (1-3 Credit Hours)
This course provides the opportunity for the study of selected topics in public/community health under the supervision of a faculty member.
Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor
HLSC 498 Directed Research in Health Services Administration (1-6 Credit Hours)
Supervised research on a specific problem in health services administration. Regular meetings with faculty and a written/oral report are required.
Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor
Recreational Therapy (RT)
RT 210 Leisure, Health, and Wellness (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on the concept of leisure and its impact on health and wellness for individuals and groups. Fundamental principles, philosophies, and theories of leisure, health, and wellness are emphasized. Leisure’s relationships with physical, cognitive, social, emotional, and spiritual growth, human satisfaction, and quality of life are explored. Leisure’s influence on challenges to wellness experienced by diverse populations (e.g., individuals with disabilities, older adults, racial and ethnic groups, individuals identifying as LGBTQIA+) is examined. Strategies for protecting and promoting health through leisure are integrated throughout the course.
Pre- or corequisite: RT 261
RT 261 Foundations of Recreational Therapy Practice (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to be an introduction to the historical and conceptual roots of recreational therapy. Content includes recreational therapy service delivery models, legislation, professional organizations, places of practice, ethical conduct, and credentialing procedures.
RT 290 Professional Preparation in Recreational Therapy (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to facilitate personal exploration and professional preparation for careers in recreational therapy. Topics include professional ethics, professional involvement, professional behaviors & responsibilities, and career preparation. On-site observation of recreational therapists in practice settings is required.
Prerequisites: RT 261 with a minimum grade of C- and recreational therapy major
RT 366 Internship Preparation (1 Credit Hour)
This course is designed to provide students with the skills and knowledge required to successfully acquire an internship placement in recreational therapy.  Emphasis will be placed on resume and cover letters, internship search strategies, interviewing skills, and internship documentation requirements.  Students are required to become familiar with all documentation requirements in the Recreational Therapy Internship Manual, and successfully secure an internship for the following semester.
Prerequisites: RT 261 with a minimum grade of C-, senior standing, and a recreational therapy major
RT 368 Junior Internship (3 Credit Hours)
This course requires a 200-hour junior internship experience at an approved health and human service agency in which students are involved with ongoing recreational therapy programs. Students are expected to observe and assist recreational therapy staff during this field experience. Students must be supervised by a Certified Therapeutic Recreation Specialist (CTRS) working for the agency.
Prerequisites: Junior standing, RT 261 with a minimum grade of C-, RT 290 , RT 420 , RT 450 , and a declared recreational therapy major
RT 420 Intervention Techniques in Recreational Therapy (4 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to introduce students to a wide variety of Recreational Therapy interventions. Students will explore physical, cognitive, and psychosocial interventions. Facilitation techniques, activity modification, and group facilitation will be explored. Students will connect diagnostic groups to specific Recreational Therapy interventions. Students will facilitate group recreational therapy interventions during lab.
Prerequisites: RT 261 with a minimum grade of C-, recreational therapy major or minor, and junior or senior standing
RT 430 Assessment, Documentation, and Evaluation in Recreational Therapy (3 Credit Hours)
This course will provide students with a detailed examination of assessment, documentation, and evaluation procedures used in the recreation therapy treatment process. Course focus includes the assessment and documentation process, including instrument design, selection, and implementation, and the reporting and use of data for treatment planning and program evaluation.
Prerequisites: RT 261 with a minimum grade of C-, recreational therapy major or minor, and junior or senior standing
RT 450 Diagnostic Groups in Recreational Therapy (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to introduce students to a variety of disabilities, illnesses, and health conditions recreational therapists may encounter in practice. The prevalence, etiology, diagnostic criteria, pathology, symptomatology, and prognosis of various conditions is presented, and the bio-psycho-social impact of the illness/disability on the individual and family is discussed. Emphasis is placed on the delivery of recreational therapy services for individuals with illnesses/disabilities and related populations.
Prerequisites: RT 261 with a minimum grade of C-, recreational therapy major or minor, and junior or senior standing
RT 460 Administration of Recreational Therapy Services (3 Credit Hours)
This course explores the basic principles of organizing and managing quality recreational therapy services. Content includes supervisory and administrative responsibilities, budgeting, managing personnel including student interns and volunteers, developing a clinical supervision program, marketing recreational therapy services, and developing a recreational therapy department based on professional standards of practice and recreational therapy models of service delivery.
Prerequisites: RT 261 with a minimum grade of C-, recreational therapy major or minor, and junior or senior standing
RT 468 Senior Internship (12 Credit Hours)
This capstone course requires a 560-hour and 14-week senior internship experience at an approved health and human service agency practicing recreational therapy. Students will apply academic learning and will demonstrate competencies associated with entry-level practice in recreational therapy. The student’s academic and agency direct supervisors must be Certified Therapeutic Recreation Specialists.
Prerequisites: Senior standing and permission of instructor
RT 470 Recreational Therapy Program Design and Implementation (3 Credit Hours)
This skill-based course is designed to further students’ practical understanding of client-centered recreational therapy program design and implementation using evidence-based strategies, techniques, and interventions. Emphasis is placed on the purpose, roles, and outcomes of recreational therapy service delivery in healthcare and community settings. Topics include assessment, recreational therapy practice models, specific program planning, task analysis, facilitation techniques, implementation of evidence-based interventions, documentation, and evaluation of services as well as interprofessional practice. Field-based application of course concepts is required.
Prerequisites: RT 261 with a minimum grade of C-, recreational therapy major or minor, and junior or senior standing
Corequisites: RT 480W
RT 480W Evidence-Based Practice and Trends in Recreational Therapy (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides an overview of evidence-based practice and related disciplinary writing in recreational therapy contexts. Through exploration of current trends and issues in the field of therapeutic recreation and a writing intensive approach, students develop skills in evaluating and interpreting research and applying applicable findings through evidence-based practice, service to the field, and professional advocacy. This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: ENGL211C/ENGL 221C/ ENGL 231C , RT 261 with a minimum grade of C-, declared recreational therapy major, and junior or senior standing
