CPD - Center for Professional Development
CPD - Center for Professional Development
Graduate Courses
CPD 100S Leadership and Society (3 Credit Hours)
This course addresses the social, political, psychological, economic, and international dimensions of leadership through a social science framework.  A specific focus is given to the dynamic interactions between social structures and leadership behavior.  Students explore how society shapes leaders and how leaders shape society.  Using an introspective approach, students consider their role as current and future leaders in a diverse society.
CPD 303T Maritime Leadership, Technology, and Society (3 Credit Hours)
This course introduces students to the intersections between maritime leadership, technology, and society. It will explain the important elements of the marine transportation and technological systems, which consist of waterways and ports that allow for various modes of transportation to move people and goods to, from, and on the water. Specific topics include an introduction to different types of cargo, how cargo is moved, ship types, ship equipment, ship routes, basic navigation and ship stability, emerging industries including offshore wind and autonomous systems, maritime law, maritime safety, and leadership.
Prerequisites: ENGL 110C
CPD 330 Public Safety Leadership (3 Credit Hours)
This class uses leadership theory and research to introduce students to leadership principles and practices related to the management, supervision, and governance of public safety agencies.  Attention is given to the way that leadership in public safety (law enforcement, homeland security, emergency management, information security, and fire and rescue) agencies is distinct from leadership in private companies and businesses.  Specific attention is given to the ethical, social, political, economic, and technological dimensions of public safety leadership.
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
CPD 340 AWS Cloud Foundations (3 Credit Hours)
AWS Academy Cloud Foundations is intended for students who seek an overall understanding of cloud computing concepts, independent of specific technical roles. It provides a detailed overview of cloud concepts, AWS core services, security, architecture, pricing, and support.
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
CPD 368 Internship in Professional Studies (1-6 Credit Hours)
An opportunity to integrate service and applied learning experience with leadership perspectives.
Prerequisites: junior standing
CPD 395 Topics (1-3 Credit Hours)
The study of selected topics which, due to their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly.  These courses will appear in the course schedule.
Prerequisites: junior standing or permission of the instructor
CPD 397 Independent Study (1-6 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor.
Prerequisites: Permission of instructor
CPD 398 Independent Study (1-6 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor.
Prerequisites: Permission of instructor
CPD 400 Foundations of Leadership (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide students with a basic introduction to leadership, with a focus on leadership history, leadership styles, traits, and skills. The differences between managers and leaders will be explored.
Prerequisites: junior standing or permission of the instructor
CPD 404 Red Hat Linux System Administrator I (3 Credit Hours)
The first of two courses covering the core system administration tasks needed to manage Red Hat Enterprise Linux servers  Red Hat System Administration I is designed for IT professionals without previous Linux system administration experience. The course provides students with Linux administration competence by focusing on core administration tasks. This course also provides a foundation for students who plan to become full-time Linux system administrators by introducing key command-line concepts and enterprise-level tools.  This course is the first of a two-course series that takes a computer professional without Linux system administration knowledge to become a fully capable Linux administrator.
Prerequisites: Junior level standing or higher, or permission of the instructor
CPD 405 Red Hat Linux System Administrator II (3 Credit Hours)
Red Hat System Administration II is the second part of the RHCSA training track for IT professionals who have already attended Red Hat System Administration I. The course goes deeper into core Linux system administration skills in storage configuration and management, installation and deployment of Red Hat Enterprise Linux, management of security features such as SELinux, control of recurring system tasks, management of the boot process and troubleshooting, basic system tuning, and command-line automation and productivity. This course assumes that students have attended Red Hat System Administration I.
Prerequisites: Junior level standing or higher, or permission of the instructor and CPD 404
Pre- or corequisite: CPD 404
CPD 406 Cyber Law (3 Credit Hours)
This course tackles two major cyber law subjects.  The first part of the course examines various U.S. laws and legal considerations that impact the digital and cyberspace worlds from traditional civil, and to a lesser extent, traditional criminal perspectives.  The second part will familiarize cyber operations professionals about the extent of and limitations on their authorities to ensure operations in cyberspace are in compliance with U.S. law, regulations, directives and policies.  The course will also introduce students to miscellaneous cybersecurity topics such as the Federal Acquisition Requirements.
Prerequisites: junior standing
CPD 408 Global Leadership (3 Credit Hours)
This course will introduce students to the concepts and complexity of leadership in a globalized society and provide the opportunity to put leadership theory into practice.  Emphasis will be on the development of the student as a leader who thinks globally, appreciates cultural diversity, is technologically savvy, knows how to build partnerships and alliances, and has the capacity to share leadership.  Students will also evaluate their current mindset and leadership skills and create a professional plan for development as a global leader.
Prerequisites: junior standing or permission of the instructor
CPD 409 Leadership and Cultural Competence (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on the study of contemporary leadership theory and practice, with particular emphasis on public and non-profit sectors. The critical themes of ethics and cultural competence are woven throughout the course.
Prerequisites: Junior standing or higher, or permission of the instructor
CPD 410 Leadership Ethics (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines how ethical principles can be used to guide effective leadership practices.  Students will gain an understanding of how ethical principles in the workplace have developed over time. They will also explore the connections between individual ethics and workplace behaviors, in addition to leadership strategies that promote ethical behavior by workers.
Prerequisites: junior standing or permission of the instructor
CPD 412 Leadership and Law (3 Credit Hours)
This course addresses leadership in public, private, and non-profit organizations relative to laws that impact such organizations. Students will examine their role as leaders within legal systems that influence business operations such as employment law, intellectual property, antitrust, white collar crime, and bankruptcy.
Prerequisites: junior standing or permission of the instructor
CPD 414 Design Thinking for Leaders (3 Credit Hours)
Design thinking is a human-centered approach to problem solving and innovation. With design thinking one can confidently generate solutions to problems in organizations or to launching a new product or enterprise. It is being used by leaders for developing meaningful and useful responses to contemporary challenges.  In this course, an overview of design thinking is provided, along with a model containing key questions and tools to help leaders understand design thinking as a problem solving approach.
Prerequisites: junior standing or permission of the instructor
CPD 415 Women in Leadership (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines gender differences in leadership, including communication styles, leadership style, and experiences in business environments. Students will explore media and cultural representations of women in leadership, as well as women leaders in popular industries. Personal leadership development and skills will be explored from the perspective of advancing women in leadership roles.
Prerequisites: junior standing or permission of the instructor
CPD 416 Trends and Issues in Leadership (3 Credit Hours)
This course is focused on examining and expanding on the application of leadership principles and decision making. It is designed to have students step out of their comfort zones and look at leadership issues from various sides. The course will provide background and learning on primary leadership concepts with ethics ideals sprinkled within the content. Students will be challenged to find articles and examples for leadership application in multiple business, industry, government, and societal realms, taking on both protagonist and antagonist roles in the examination of the issues.
Prerequisites: junior standing or permission of the instructor
CPD 417/517 Digital Leadership (3 Credit Hours)
This course explores technology as it relates to leadership experiences. Theories, case studies and real world examples are analyzed to show both successful and unsuccessful uses of online and digital approaches that inform leaders' communication strategies.  Students will explore how their own digital identities may impact their futures as leaders. They will also learn how to create digital identities that will shape their professional identities throughout their careers.
Prerequisites: junior standing or permission of instructor
CPD 494 Entrepreneurship in Professional Studies (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to help students enhance their personal and professional development through innovation guided by faculty members and professionals.  This course offers students an opportunity to integrate disciplinary theory and knowledge through developing a nonprofit program, product, business, or other initiative. The real-world experiences that entrepreneurships provide will help students understand how academic knowledge leads to transformations, innovations, and solutions to different types of problems.
Prerequisites: COMM 351 , COMM 355 , COMM 421 , or CPD 414
CPD 495 Topics (1-3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics which, due to their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly.  These courses will appear in the course schedule.
Prerequisites: junior standing or permission of the instructor
CPD 517 Digital Leadership (3 Credit Hours)
This course explores technology as it relates to leadership experiences. Theories, case studies and real world examples are analyzed to show both successful and unsuccessful uses of online and digital approaches that inform leaders' communication strategies.  Students will explore how their own digital identities may impact their futures as leaders. They will also learn how to create digital identities that will shape their professional identities throughout their careers.
Prerequisites: Graduate standing
