Volume 82, No. 1
Catalog Issue 2023-2024 Announcements 2024-2025
Announcements contained in this publication are subject to change without notice and may not be regarded in the nature of binding obligations to the University. The University reserves the right to change any provisions or requirements. Only the Provost or designee can approve changes to the Catalog except where otherwise stated within.
When students matriculate with Old Dominion University, they come under the academic requirements of the edition of the Catalog at that time. Students may graduate under these academic requirements within a period of six years even though subsequent Catalogs may change. Academic requirements include competency requirements, general education requirements, grade point average requirements, major and minor course requirements, foreign language requirements, overall unit requirements and related curriculum matters. Grading practices, tuition, fees and other matters are not considered to be “academic requirements” and are subject to change at the discretion of the University.
Should new changes be to their advantage, undergraduate students may graduate under the conditions of the newer catalog. However, because academic programs are subject to requirements imposed by outside accrediting or certifying agencies, the Commonwealth of Virginia, and the United States of America, such outside requirements take precedence.
It is the policy of Old Dominion University to provide equal employment, educational and social opportunities for all persons, without regard to race (or traits historically associated with race including hair texture, hair type, and protective styles such as braids, locks, and twists), color, national origin, age, marital status, sex (including pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions), political affiliation, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, disability, religion, or veteran status. Old Dominion University complies with the Family Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (as amended).
The University is an Affirmative Action Equal Opportunity employer.
Student Responsibility for Catalog Information
Students are held individually responsible for the information contained in the Undergraduate and Graduate Catalogs. Failure to read and comply with University regulations will not exempt students from whatever penalties they may incur.
Search catalog
