No Undergraduate courses found.
MAPD 601 Number and Operations for PK-8 Mathematics Specialists (3 Credit Hours)
This course will meet the requirements of students in the Master of Science in Education: PK-8 Mathematics Specialist Endorsement Program, and cannot be used for credit toward any degree offered by the Department of Mathematics and Statistics. The course introduces students to a number of topics in PK-8 mathematics and related pedagogical methods. Acknowledging that learning with understanding occurs through a process of establishing a solid knowledge base upon which to build, students will explore the many and varied ways in which PK-8 students may develop number sense. The focus will be upon the development of best practices for teaching mathematics. This requires that the student have knowledge of the content, use a variety of pedagogical approaches, and be able to select and utilize appropriate manipulatives and technological resources that will foster PK-8 student understanding.
MAPD 602 Geometry and Measurement for PK-8 Mathematics Specialists (3 Credit Hours)
This course will meet the requirements of students in the Master of Science in Education: PK-8 Mathematics Specialist Endorsement Program, and cannot be used for credit toward any degree offered by the Department of Mathematics and Statistics. The course introduces students to a number of topics in PK-8 mathematics and related pedagogical methods. Following a "concrete-to-abstract" developmental learning approach, students will explore the mathematical concepts of measurement and geometry in grades PK-8. Emphasis will be placed upon measurement and geometry content knowledge as well as the pedagogical knowledge specific to mathematics teaching and learning. Students will also learn to use appropriate technology.
MAPD 603 Rational Numbers and Proportional Reasoning for PK-8 Mathematics Specialists (3 Credit Hours)
This course will meet the requirements of students in the Master of Science in Education: PK-8 Mathematics Specialist Endorsement Program, and cannot be used for credit toward any degree offered by the Department of Mathematics and Statistics. The course introduces students to a number of topics in PK-8 mathematics and related pedagogical methods. It is designed to engage participants in constructing relational understanding between theoretical development of mathematics and students' learning of mathematics in the content strands of rational numbers and proportional reasoning. Students will learn how to select and use manipulatives to connect the concrete phase of mathematical learning to the abstract, symbolic phase. Various technologies will be integrated throughout the course as tools to enhance teaching and student understanding.
MAPD 604 Probability and Statistics for PK-8 Mathematics Specialists (3 Credit Hours)
This course will meet the requirements of students in the Master of Science in Education: PK-8 Mathematics Specialist Endorsement Program, and cannot be used for credit toward any degree offered by the Department of Mathematics and Statistics. The course introduces students to a number of topics in PK-8 mathematics and related pedagogical methods. It will focus on the content and processes that support the PK-8 students' learning of probability and statistics. Instruction will cover data collection, display, and analysis as well as the development of a fundamental understanding of probabilistic structures. These structures will be related to real world problem solving and hands-on activities. Technology will be integrated throughout the course to illustrate mathematical concepts, facilitate students exploration, and to make and test hypotheses.
MAPD 605 Algebra and Functions for PK-8 Mathematics Specialists (3 Credit Hours)
This course will meet the requirements of students in the Master of Science in Education: PK-8 Mathematics Specialist Endorsement Program and cannot be used for credit toward any degree offered by the Department of Mathematics and Statistics. The course introduces students to algebraic topics in PK-12 mathematics and related pedagogical methods. Topics will focus on making connections between arithmetic and algebra and transitioning concrete arithmetic thinking to abstract algebraic thinking. Technology will be included  to enhance students' algebraic understanding and sense making.
Search catalog
