Bonnie L. Van Lunen, Dean Christopher K. Rhea, Associate Dean of Research and Innovation Barbara Kraj, Associate Dean of Education and Innovation
2114 Health Sciences Building Norfolk, VA 23529 757-683-4960 http://www.odu.edu/hs
College Mission
The college mission is to improve individual and community health by advanced professional education, influential research, and responsive service. The vision of the College of Health Sciences is to be a forward-focused College that improves health in our communities through innovative and interdisciplinary approaches.
The college consists of the School of Community and Environmental Health, the Gene W. Hirschfeld School of Dental Hygiene, the School of Medical Diagnostic and Translational Sciences, and the School of Rehabilitation Sciences. These schools offer a variety of master’s and doctoral degrees, and non-degree certificate programs, linked and degree completion programs, and professional continuing education programs. In addition, many of these programs are offered in a variety of online learning formats. The degree programs are competitive, fully accredited, and nationally recognized for their quality graduates.
Program Application, Acceptance, and Continuance
A separate application must be submitted to be considered for acceptance into the majority of health sciences majors. Application information, qualifications, deadlines, and advisors are listed in the specific program sections of this catalog and on the web site.
Acceptance to the University does not constitute or guarantee acceptance into a health sciences major. Students are notified by the program director of their acceptance and any other program specific requirements such as physicals, immunizations, technical standards, etc. Continuance in the health sciences majors requires strong academic achievement, including successful demonstration of knowledge and use of practical and critical thinking skills in laboratory and in clinical rotations. Criminal background checks may be required as specified in course syllabi. Any student deemed unacceptable for clinical rotation due to results from a criminal background check will not be allowed to complete the program of study.
The College of Health Sciences has developed graduate programs in the health-related professions that prepare individuals for practice, teaching, research, or administration in health-care delivery to meet the needs of the region, the state, and the nation. These programs include Master of Science degrees in Athletic Training, Exercise Science, Speech Language Pathology and Dental Hygiene, the Master of Public Health degree, the Doctor of Physical Therapy degree, the Ph.D. in Health Services Research, and the Ph.D. in Kinesiology and Rehabilitation.
Continuing Education Programs
Short courses, national conferences, workshops, refresher courses, certificate programs and seminars are offered by the different schools in the college on and off campus on a noncredit continuing education (CEU) basis. Professional continuing education programs cover a wide range of topics, including environmental health, dental hygiene, dental assisting, nuclear medicine technology, health-care management, medical technology, physical therapy, community health, mental health, and chemical dependency.
Continuing education serves the following functions:
licensure and certification for professionals and practitioners and
credential and degree achievement and professional development to update knowledge and skills.
Clientele served by the programs include nursing and allied health professionals, human service workers, managers and supervisory personnel, technicians, laboratory personnel, and health educators.
Visit the website to view current offerings.
Departments
