Online Career Services at ODU
Helping you take the next step in your career
Whether you're starting in a new field or advancing your current career, you have a university of support.
As an online Old Dominion University student, you'll have access to a wealth of career information and assistance from the Center for Career & Leadership Development (CCLD). Our ePortfolio Studio will help you create a professional web presence to share with employers or graduate schools.
ODU also has several centers designed to help students and alumni start businesses, learn leadership skills, and network with professionals.
Image
Finding Your Career
Are you looking for a degree or certificate to set you on the path to your future career? We can help!
When you contact ODUGlobal, an enrollment coach will reach out to you to discuss your goals. Our coaches can answer questions about how ODU programs prepare you for a job and help identify the degree or certificate program that's right for you.
It's okay if you're not sure which program you want to pursue. We'll help you figure out the next step.
Internships and co-op experiences are a great way to learn about potential careers. They can also open the door to a full-time job after graduation. We can help you identify internship opportunities in your local area.
I was between a few programs and my enrollment coach guided me in the best direction for my goals for the future, I can’t thank her enough!
Image
Nicole Herman Current student
Starting Your Own Business
If your career aspirations involve entrepreneurship, you're in good company at ODU. Old Dominion University is the home of the Institute for Innovation and Entrepreneurship . You can connect with resources to refine and plan your small business venture while you work on your degree.
ODU is dedicated to promoting entrepreneurship across disciplines. You can start your entrepreneurial journey with an online business program , or take advantage of entrepreneurship courses in other fields, such as engineering or nursing.
Advancing or Changing Your Career
As a working professional or military service member, you've gained valuable knowledge and skills through experience and on-the-job training. You also may have college credits from a previous degree.
At ODU, you can put those skills and training to good use. In additional to traditional college credit transfers, you may be able to gain credits for specific courses though CLEP/DSST exams or prior learning assessment .
As an ODU student and alumni, you'll have access to experts and resources from ODU's Center for Career & Leadership Development . CCLD staff can help with career planning, polishing your resume, or finding job boards for specific fields, including jobs overseas.
Whether you work full-time or part-time, earning a degree or certificate takes dedication, time management, and support. We understand the needs of adult students. Check out our top five tips for online students with a full-time job.
Student Success at ODU
ODU has been recognized as a College of Distinction for Career Development and Equity & Inclusion
(CollegesofDistinction.com, 2023-2024).
ODU ranks #7 of 1,205 colleges and universities on CollegeNET's Social Mobility Index for 2024.
ODU Career Development Services
Through CCLD, you'll have access to expert career advice, job banks, and professional development resources. Their comprehensive range of online career services includes:
Resume and cover letter assistance
Mock interviews with feedback
Job and internship search strategies
Exclusive job boards
Graduate school application assistance
Anything else career-related!
ODU students can schedule an appointment online or connect to the CCLD Drop-in Zoom Room. Add the Handshake app to your Apple or Android device to access university career services on-the-go!
Highlights
ePortfolios
An ePortfolio is a website or web page that unifies your education and experience and translates them into an online showcase of marketable skills. Creating an ePortfolio can help you recognize your accomplishments and demonstrate your skills to employers.
As an ODU student, you have access to our ePortfolio Studio . Through workshops and individual sessions, you can learn how to create and design an ePortfolio to accurately highlight your knowledge and skills. You'll also learn how to maintain a professional ePortfolio throughout your career.
Resume Review and Interview Practice
CCLD offers one-on-one sessions to help you make a good impression on future employers. Services include:
How to create a resume that accurately reflects your knowledge, skills, and abilities
Tips for writing cover letters and other professional correspondence
Mock job interviews for general practice or to prep for a specific interview
Job search strategies, including networking opportunities
Understanding job offers and benefits
Job Searches and Networking
Our students and alumni have access to a wide variety of job boards, from local internships to international jobs.
In addition, CCLD offers job search strategies, such as where to look for the job you want and what to include in your application.
Networking is an important part of the job search. CCLD can help you identify the valuable contacts you already have and how you could grow your network. This includes optimizing your LinkedIn profile to catch the eye of recruiters and employers.
Lifetime Alumni Benefits
Your access to career services at ODU doesn't end when you graduate! Whether you're a new grad looking for your first professional position or a seasoned professional looking for a change, ODU is ready to help.
When you have a degree from ODU, you have access to:
Career, internship, or partnership opportunities through the Center for Career & Leadership Development
Access to job boards, events, and resources through the Handshake app
Membership in the ODU Alumni Career Network on LinkedIn
ODU's Institute for Innovation & Entrepreneurship , where startups, businesses, and organizations can engage the intellectual capital, world-class infrastructure, and cutting-edge technologies of ODU. This includes:
Strome Entrepreneurial Center - Offering individual advising/mentoring for new ventures or existing business owners, plus general education about entrepreneurship as a career path.
Women’s Business Center - Educating, inspiring, and supporting women entrepreneurs to launch and grow businesses. Member of the national Association of Women's Business Centers.
Veterans Business Outreach Center - Providing entrepreneurial development services to eligible veterans who own or are considering starting a small business. Serving Federal Region III, which includes Virginia and West Virginia.
TempO Program - Turning ideas into solutions, and solutions into scalable businesses, using a managed process from idea to execution.
Old Dominion University
Gornto Hall, Norfolk, VA 23529
Footer
