Active Duty Military Tuition Rate
Current Tuition Rates
A special Military Tuition Rate* is available for:
undergraduate students who are
members of the Active Duty Components of the U.S. military (or Reserve or National Guard members on active-duty with Title X orders)
taking for-credit courses (which can be degree or non-degree seeking, offered on campus or online)
*Military Tuition Rate offerings effective Fall 2018
Verification of Active Duty Status
If you self-identify as "active duty military" on your admissions application, your status will be verified by the Registrar's Office using the Servicemember's Civil Relief Act (SCRA) website . We must be able to verify that the student is on active-duty on the date verified and in one of the following Service Components: Army Active Duty; Coast Guard Active Duty; Air Force Active Duty; Marine Corps Active Duty; or Navy Active Duty. Please note that other Service Components, including Reserve and National Guard are not eligible for the reduced tuition rate.
If your service status is not listed correctly on the SCRA website, it is the your responsibility to have it corrected by contacting the Personnel Command of your service branch. Copies of orders will not be accepted as proof of active-duty status.
If you are an eligible student but did not receive the military tuition rate, please email instate@odu.edu for assistance. In order to confirm verification of active duty status, we must have the student's Social Security Number, Date of Birth, and Legal Last Name on file. If we do not have this information on file, we may require government-issued identification to verify it.
Military In-State Tuition
In-state Tuition Benefit for Active Duty Military
Effective October 1, 2016, the Code of Virginia section 23.1-500--510 provides the following benefit:
Active duty military, activated guard or reservist members, or guard or reservist members mobilized or on temporary active orders for six months or more, who are residing in Virginia, can be eligible for the in-state tuition rate.
To be eligible, the active duty military member must apply for the in-state tuition rate using the Application for Active Duty/Veteran Tuition Rate . Verification of eligibility is through orders and proof of Virginia residence, which should be submitted with the application.
The benefit is not based on designation of Virginia in-state residency, but rather it places a limit on the amount of tuition the student may be charged.
Tuition Assistance authorization forms will not qualify students for the in-state tuition rate. The documentation specified below must be submitted in order to qualify for in-state rates.
The provision does not provide access to financial aid reserved for Virginia in-state residents and eligible students continue to be categorized as out-of-state (if appropriate) for reporting purposes.
Documentation required:
A copy of the military orders which verify active duty military status or activation of reservist/guard member
Documentation verifying Virginia residence (such as utility bill, valid lease, etc.)
You must submit this documentation EACH SEMESTER in which you plan to use this benefit
Tuition Assistance Requirements
Active Duty Military Eligibility for In-State Tuition
Effective Fall 2007, tuition assistance authorization forms no longer automatically qualify students for the in-state tuition rate. To be eligible for the in-state tuition rate, active duty military members must apply for the in-state tuition rate using the Active Duty Military Tuition Benefit Form.
The following two elements form the basis of the in-state tuition eligibility for non-Virginia domiciled members of the armed forces enrolled in courses at Old Dominion University:
Members of the armed forces not domiciled in Virginia must submit a completed tuition assistance (TA) document that covers at least a portion of the tuition for the semester for which they are enrolling.
In addition, the military student's assigned command must have a "Special Arrangement Contract" (SAC) with Old Dominion University.
A TA document must be submitted for at least a portion of the student's total tuition for every semester that the military student is enrolled at ODU. The student is responsible for paying the portion of the tuition not covered by the TA, and submission of the TA document signifies that the student accepts liability for payment of the tuition not covered. This is an absolute requirement of Virginia law that governs domicile and tuition rates at state institutions and is a provision of the SAC with their command or facility. The University processes the TA document to pay the covered amount-- please always include a social security number (SSN) or University Identification Number (UIN) on TA forms.
Application for Active Duty/Veteran Tuition Rate
