Music (MUSC)
MUSC 510 Psychology of Music (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to assist students in enhancing their understanding of the aesthetic response to music in various settings.  Students will learn to integrate their understanding of musical aptitude as it relates to human growth and development.  In addition, students will study the psychological implication of personality types as they develop, implement, and assess their pedagogical approach.
MUSC 522 Form and Analysis (2 Credit Hours)
Aural analysis study and analysis of the principal traditional musical forms.  Stylistic and harmonic analysis as it related to score study will be discussed.
MUSC 526 Marching Band Techniques and Arranging (2 Credit Hours)
Students will learn how to chart and arrange music for the marching band. In addition, basic vocal arranging techniques will be discussed. Students will be required to observe different styles of school marching bands.
MUSC 540 Scoring for Film (3 Credit Hours)
This is a hands-on course in the art of film composition. Students will analyze iconic film scores from Bernard Herrmann to John Powell, exploring music's narrative impact, gain insight into the modern composer’s workflow and diverse skill sets, and apply the techniques learned in practical projects, transitioning from sketch to demo using a DAW. The course culminates in a recording session for the final project. This projects allows students to practice film spotting, thematic writing, sketch to demo production, arranging and music preparation for a live recording experience. Students elevate their skills in writing music that uniquely supports and enhances visual storytelling.
Prerequisites: MUSC 222 and MUSC 335T
MUSC 545 Applied Music Pedagogy (1 Credit Hour)
Teaching techniques, literature in the performing area.  Seminar deals with resource materials.  Laboratory:  observation and teaching under supervision.
Prerequisites: senior standing, music major, or permission of the department
MUSC 560 History of Jazz (3 Credit Hours)
This course will study the historical development of jazz as an American art form.  The emotion and meaning of this style will be investigated as well as the historical and contemporary aesthetic response.  Emphasis will include the defining role of African American artists.  The influence of jazz on the development of contemporary American music will be discussed. A research paper will be required.
MUSC 561 History of Recorded Music (3 Credit Hours)
The course covers how music has co-evolved with technology, the entertainment business, and cultural trends. The main theme is how recording technology has evolved, and with it, the music making and music listening experiences. Students will expand their musical vocabulary through the study of numerous musical genres, listening to and discussing the essential elements of impactful records, and learning about key artists, composers, producers, engineers, and other music professionals (both past and present). Students will gain a better understanding of the role music plays in the entertainment industry, including with film, TV, games, social media, live events, and more.
Prerequisites: ENGL 110C
MUSC 562 Hip-Hop Music and Culture (3 Credit Hours)
Hip-hop, from local roots to global dominance, has sparked extensive journalistic and academic exploration primarily focused on its social and cultural impacts. This course delves into the historical factors shaping hip-hop's origin and evolution, examines its global success and translation both musically and linguistically, and engages in contemplation regarding the essence and direction of hip-hop. No prior musical experience or knowledge of music notation is required, but students will develop a basic set of skills for discussing the structure and function of hip-hop songs.
Prerequisites: Graduate standing in music or permission of the instructor
MUSC 566 Music of the 20th Century to the Present (3 Credit Hours)
A study of the techniques and styles in music in the twentieth and twenty first century (offered spring).
Prerequisites: Graduate standing in music or permission of the instructor
MUSC 571 Musicians' Health: Music and Medicine (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to assist music students to enhance their understanding of musicians' health issues in order to prepare them to achieve their desired performance potential.
Prerequisites: Graduate standing or permission of the Graduate Program Director
MUSC 591 Music History from the Ancient to Baroque Era (3 Credit Hours)
Study of music history (specific topics vary) including historical perspective in relation to style and development of music, and the function of music in society and culture.  Topics will be from the Ancient through the Baroque era (offered fall semester).
Prerequisites: Graduate standing in music or permission of the instructor
MUSC 592 Music History from the Classical through Modern Era (3 Credit Hours)
Study of music history (specific topics vary) including historical perspective in relation to style and development of music, and the function of music in society and culture.  Topics will be from the Classical through Modern era.
Prerequisites: Graduate standing in music or permission of the instructor
MUSC 594 Music in the Romantic Era (3 Credit Hours)
A study of music history from the late works of Beethoven to Mahler and Strauss.  A discussion of musical style within the context of cultural history. (offered spring, even years)
Prerequisites: Graduate standing in music or permission of the instructor
MUSC 595 Topics in Music (1-3 Credit Hours)
These courses will appear in the course schedule.  Course descriptions and prerequisites for each course may be found in information distributed to all academic advisors.
MUSC 596 Topics in Music (1-3 Credit Hours)
These courses will appear in the course schedule.  Course descriptions and prerequisites for each course may be found in information distributed to all academic advisors.
MUSC 600 Introduction to Graduate Research (1 Credit Hour)
This course should be taken among the first courses in the Master of Music Education program.  Introduces graduate students to basic skills in Music Education research, including bibliographic searches, on-line searches, computer data analysis, and conventions of scholarly writing for reporting findings.
Prerequisites: Admission to the Master of Music Education program or instructor’s permission
Pre- or corequisite: MUSC 630
MUSC 602 Analytical Techniques (3 Credit Hours)
Examines techniques and concepts applied to compositions of the eighteenth, nineteenth, and twentieth centuries as well as modern music, through analysis of contrapuntal and harmonic textures, form, and performance practice.
Prerequisites: Baccalaureate degree in music or permission of department chair and instructor
MUSC 603 Principles of Music Education (3 Credit Hours)
Methods, techniques, principles, and tools of music education, with reference to various types of school situations.
Prerequisites: Admission to the Master of Music Education program or instructor’s permission
MUSC 604 Foundations of Music Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course involves the study of the philosophical, psychological and historical foundations of music related to curriculum development.
Prerequisites: Admission to the Master of Music Education program or instructor’s permission
MUSC 605 Literature of the Wind Ensemble (3 Credit Hours)
The course centers upon the study of the performance, review and analysis of music for the Symphonic Band and Wind Ensemble.  Suited especially to the needs of directors of secondary school and other nonprofessional wind ensembles.
Prerequisites: Baccalaureate degree in music or permission of the instructor
MUSC 606 Choral Music Literature (3 Credit Hours)
Survey of choral literature and practical performance practices from the Renaissance to the present.
Prerequisites: Baccalaureate degree in music or permission of the department chair and instructor
MUSC 607 Orff Schulwerk Level I (3 Credit Hours)
This course is a study of basic Orff Schulwerk techniques.  Level I pedagogy includes instruction in the use of pentatonic scale, ostinato, elemental forms, improvisation, basic body movement and basic soprano recorder skills.
Prerequisites: undergraduate degree in music or music education
MUSC 608 Orff Schulwerk Level II (3 Credit Hours)
Introduction of Alto recorder occurs in Level II. Also included is an in-depth study of Orff Schulwerk Vol. III in which the student will be instructed in the use of I, IV, V harmony. Body movement and extensive study of folk dance are included.
Prerequisites: MUSC 607 and proficiency on the soprano recorder
MUSC 609 Literature of the Orchestra (3 Credit Hours)
This course is a survey of standard repertoire written for string and symphony orchestra, including score analysis and study of historical context and performance practice. Selected educational repertoire will also be explored in relation to similar counterparts in the standard repertoire. Suited for music educators and developing conductors.
Prerequisites: undergraduate degree in music or permission of the instructor
MUSC 610 Orff Schulwerk Level III (3 Credit Hours)
This course will build upon the skills and concepts introduced in Orff Schulwerk Levels I and II.  Recorder technique will be expanded upon as well as eurhythmics and special topics.
Prerequisites: MUSC 607 and MUSC 608
MUSC 611 Current Trends in Elementary and Secondary Music (3 Credit Hours)
Designed for public school music teachers.  This course involves the study of current methodology, its practice and uses in the elementary and secondary general/vocal/instrumental music program.
Prerequisites: Admission to the Master of Music Education program or instructor’s permission
MUSC 612 Organization and Administration of Instrumental Music (3 Credit Hours)
The course involves the study of effective organization and implementation techniques for elementary and secondary instrumental ensembles; includes particular problems in the administration of high school instrumental groups.
Prerequisites: Baccalaureate degree in music or permission of instructor
MUSC 613 Workshop in Music Education (1 Credit Hour)
This course centers upon the development of performance and instructional skills in various aspects of music education.  May be repeated twice with different emphases.
Prerequisites: Baccalaureate degree in music or permission of the department chair and instructor
MUSC 614 Workshop in Instrumental Music (1 Credit Hour)
The course centers upon the development of performance and instrumental skills in various aspects of instrumental music.  May be repeated twice with different emphases.
Prerequisites: Baccalaureate degree in music or permission of the department chair and instructor
MUSC 615 Workshop in Choral Music (1 Credit Hour)
This course centers upon the development of conducting techniques, performance and instructional skills in various aspects of choral music.  May be repeated twice with different emphases.
Prerequisites: Baccalaureate degree in music or permission of the department chair and instructor
MUSC 616 Advanced Conducting Seminar (3 Credit Hours)
Involves conducting techniques as applied to various mixed ensembles.  Emphasizes the technical considerations common to all phases of choral and instrumental conducting with special concern for school problems.
Prerequisites: Baccalaureate degree in music or permission of instructor or department chair
MUSC 630 Research in Music Education (3 Credit Hours)
Types of research, selection of problems, location of educational information, collection and classification of data, organization, presentation and interpretation of materials in the area of music education.
Prerequisites: Admission to the Master of Music Education program or instructor’s permission
Pre- or corequisite: MUSC 600
MUSC 635 Technology in the Music Classroom (3 Credit Hours)
This course supports music educators in their goal of producing engaging educational experiences for their students. Topics include essential audio skills, basic video production, the entertainment business, music composition for various contexts, music apps, and more. Students learn through practical projects, receiving detailed feedback on their work. The technological tools would be put within the context of culture, current musical and business trends, and creative pedagogy.
Prerequisites: Undergraduate degree in music or permission of the instructor
MUSC 636 Techniques of Jazz Education in the Secondary School (3 Credit Hours)
This course will deal with rehearsal techniques for the Jazz Ensemble, including articulation, style, phrasing, literature, and improvisational techniques.  In addition, Jazz history and literature will be discussed in detail.
Prerequisites: undergraduate degree in music or permission of the instructor
MUSC 639 Vocal/Choral Arranging (3 Credit Hours)
Course is designed to develop the skills necessary to arrange a piece of vocal music for ensembles of various sizes and makeup.  Techniques will be discussed and shown in class and students will complete written assignments to implement these techniques.
Prerequisites: passing the Theory Placement Test; undergraduate degree in music or permission of the instructor
MUSC 680 Performing Ensembles (1 Credit Hour)
Students are expected to help with sectional rehearsals and do in-depth score study on all music being performed.
Prerequisites: permission of the instructor and audition
MUSC 692 Portfolio (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to guide the student who is completing the Pedagogical Concentration in developing a professional teaching portfolio. It would typically be taken during the last semester of the degree program. The portfolio will be completed in digital format suitable for professional use. It will include information in the following areas: professional foundations, scholarship, performance, applied pedagogy and other professional data pertinent to the focus of the student.
Prerequisites: Admission to the Master of Music Education program or instructor's permission
MUSC 695 Topics in Music (1-3 Credit Hours)
These courses will appear in the course schedule. Course descriptions and prerequisites for each course may be found in information distributed to all academic advisors.
Prerequisites: undergraduate degree in music or permission of the instructor
MUSC 696 Topics in Music (1-3 Credit Hours)
These courses will appear in the course schedule. Course descriptions and prerequisites for each course may be found in information distributed to all academic advisors.
Prerequisites: undergraduate degree in music or permission of the instructor
MUSC 697 Independent Study (1-3 Credit Hours)
Designed for individualized study.  Independent study projects will be related to music education and done under the supervision of a certified faculty member.
Prerequisites: permission of the graduate program director
MUSC 698 Thesis Research (3 Credit Hours)
Application of research procedures in music education, culminating in student study of selected topics.
Prerequisites: MUSC 600 , MUSC 630 , and permission of the graduate program director
MUSC 699 Thesis (3 Credit Hours)
Completion of thesis for the Master of Music Education degree.
Prerequisites: MUSC 698
MUSC 998 Master's Graduate Credit (1 Credit Hour)
This course is a pass/fail course for master's students in their final semester. It may be taken to fulfill the registration requirement necessary for graduation.  All master's students are required to be registered for at least one graduate credit hour in the semester of their graduation.
MUSC 999 Doctoral Graduate Credit (1 Credit Hour)
This course is a pass/fail course doctoral students may take to maintain active status after successfully passing the candidacy examination.  All doctoral students are required to be registered for at least one graduate credit hour every semester until their graduation.
Search catalog
