Graduate Courses
SCI 101 Introduction to the College of Sciences (1 Credit Hour)
Presents the relationship between majors in the College of Sciences and the student's career goals for students planning to major in a science.  Provides an orientation to the University emphasizing the learning skills needed for science majors.
SCI 195 Topics (3 Credit Hours)
Topics of study that are not offered regularly.
SCI 302T The Evolution of Modern Science (3 Credit Hours)
This course outlines the history of science from Aristotle to the present.  Scientific progress has always been coupled with human progress and subject to the politics and culture of the times.  Scientists, in most instances, have been in the mainstream of society.  But, because of their curiosity and innovation, scientists have often clashed with the prevailing culture. (Cross-listed with HIST 386T ).
Prerequisites: HIST 100H , HIST 101H , HIST 102H , HIST 103H , HIST 104H , or HIST 105H
SCI 347 Responsible Conduct of Research (1 Credit Hour)
Responsible conduct of research is essential to good science and promoting public confidence in scientific knowledge.  This course will introduce students to responsible conduct of science and scientific research by exploring ethical and professional principles associated with the practice of research.
Prerequisites: Junior standing
SCI 395 Special Topics (1-3 Credit Hours)
Topics of study that are not offered regularly.
Prerequisites: permission of the instructor
SCI 468 Research Methods in Math and Sciences (3 Credit Hours)
Emphasizes the tools and techniques used to solve scientific problems. Topics include use and design of experiments, use of statistics to interpret experimental results,mathematical modeling of scientific phenomena, and oral and written presentation of results. Students will perform four independent inquiries, combining skills from mathematics and science to solve research problems.
SCI 495 Topics (1-3 Credit Hours)
Topics that are not offered regularly.
Prerequisites: permission of the instructor
No Graduate courses found.
