Graduate Courses
ANTR 110S Introduction to Anthropology (3 Credit Hours)
A survey of what we know about the emergence of humans:  where we came from; how we developed physically and why; how human cultures became more complex through time; and the variety of human ways of life today.
ANTR 303 Biological Anthropology (3 Credit Hours)
Human physical and cultural evolution from our earliest primate beginnings through the appearance of anatomically modern humans.
Prerequisites: ANTR 110S
ANTR 304 Digging Up the Past (3 Credit Hours)
A comprehensive study of the philosophical and scientific foundations of archaeology and of a general prehistory to which they are applied.  The course includes discussions of methods and theories used to reconstruct ancient Egypt and Mexico and other early cultures.
Prerequisites: ANTR 110S or completion of the human behavior requirement or permission of the instructor
ANTR 305 North American Archaeology (3 Credit Hours)
The study of the prehistory of native cultures north of Mexico from the peopling of the New World to contact with Europeans.
Prerequisites: ANTR 110S or completion of the human behavior requirement or permission of the instructor
ANTR 395 Topics in Anthropology (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics, designed for nonmajors, or for elective credit within a major.  These courses will appear in the course schedule, and will be more fully described in information distributed to academic advisors.
Prerequisites: ANTR 110S or permission of instructor
ANTR 495 Topics in Anthropology (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics designed for either majors or nonmajors. These courses will appear in the course schedule, and will be more fully described in information distributed to academic advisors.
Prerequisites: Senior standing or approval of the department chair
ANTR 497 Tutorial Work in Special Topics in Anthropology (3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor.  Conferences and papers as appropriate.
Prerequisites: Senior standing and approval of department chair
ANTR 697 Tutorial Work in Special Topics in Anthropology (3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of a member of the graduate faculty. Conferences and papers as appropriate.
ANTR 698 Tutorial Work in Special Topics in Anthropology (3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of a member of the graduate faculty. Conferences and papers as appropriate.
Search catalog
