Graduate Courses
SOC 100S Leadership and Society (3 Credit Hours)
This course addresses the social, political, psychological, economic, and international dimensions of leadership through a social science framework.  A specific focus is given to the dynamic interactions between social structures and leadership behavior.  Students explore how society shapes leaders and how leaders shape society.  Using an introspective approach, students consider their role as current and future leaders in a diverse society.
SOC 201S Introduction to Sociology (3 Credit Hours)
An introduction to the discipline and methods of sociology.  Major topics include socialization, social inequality, family, education, gender roles, ethnic and minority relations.
SOC 203S Diversity and Society (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines social diversity and inclusivity in American society and is designed to sensitize students to the roles that typology such as race, ethnicity, social class, religion, sex and gender, age, health, (dis)ability, sexual orientation, and language play in societal definitions of social diversity.
SOC 205S Data, Technology, Society (3 Credit Hours)
This course investigates how data science is transforming not only our sense of science and scientific knowledge, but our sense of ourselves and our communities and our commitments concerning human affairs and institutions generally. Social implications of the digital revolution, including ethical issues associated with algorithmic design and privacy will be examined. Students will use a sociological lens to explore how our increasingly digital lifestyle changes institutions and social relations.
SOC 226S Honors: Introduction to Sociology (3 Credit Hours)
Open only to students in the Honors College.  A special honors section of SOC 201S .
SOC 300 Social Problems (3 Credit Hours)
An analysis of the major social problems confronting groups and individuals in a society marked by rapid change.  Emphasis is given to the study of social phenomena including both historical and comparative perspectives.
Prerequisites: SOC 201S or permission of the instructor
SOC 303 Families and Society (3 Credit Hours)
This class explores both contemporary and historical aspects of singlehood, courtship, mate selection, cohabitation, marriage, sexuality, and family.  Relationship quality, communication, conflict, and the termination of relationships is also examined.  Emphasis is placed on examining the diversity of relationships and family structures as well as how our family experiences are shaped by gender, race/ethnicity, class, and sexual orientation.
Prerequisites: Any "S" (Human Behavior general education) course
SOC 306 Religion and Society (3 Credit Hours)
Sociological analysis of religion as a social institution, of the functions of religion and its relationship to other institutions and to social change, and of the religious behavior of individuals.
Prerequisites: SOC 201S or permission of the instructor
SOC 309 Population and Society (3 Credit Hours)
This course offers an introduction to the field of population and its interconnection to broader societal changes.  It introduces students to the concepts, issues and concerns in population studies and examines the interaction between population processes and economic development, social changes and environment.  Topics include theories, fertility, mortality, migration, distribution and composition, population and development, population and environment, and policy.  Emphasis is given to a critical assessment of population processes as both causes and consequences of development and societal changes with a focus on comparative patterns between developing countries and the more developed countries.
Prerequisites: Six semester hours in human behavior or permission of the instructor
SOC 316 Juvenile Delinquency (3 Credit Hours)
A study of juvenile misbehavior in the contemporary community, its nature, extent, treatment, and control, including juvenile court procedure and philosophy.
Prerequisites: CRJS 215S or SOC 201S or permission of instructor
SOC 320 Social Inequality (3 Credit Hours)
An analysis of social differentiation, stratification, and social class.  Emphasis is placed upon modern American society, with some comparison with historical and contemporary systems of other societies.
Prerequisites: SOC 201S or permission of the instructor
SOC 323 Sociology of Minority Families (3 Credit Hours)
Examination and explanation of minority families' lives in relationship to other societal institutions and historical developments.  The course focuses on issues of minority families and places these issues in a sociological framework, e.g., stratification, poverty and gender.
Prerequisites: SOC 201S or permission of the instructor
SOC 325 Social Welfare (3 Credit Hours)
An introduction to the broad field of social welfare.  The philosophy, values, purposes, goals, and functions of social welfare are examined.
Prerequisites: SOC 201S or permission of the instructor
SOC 326 LGBTQ People, Crime, and Justice (3 Credit Hours)
Objectives include: learning appropriate terminology to discuss LGBTQ individuals and reviewing the social issues facing these populations, such as criminalization and damaging cultural stereotypes; critically exploring the history of interactions between LGBTQ communities and agents of formal control, such as schools and the police; evaluating the experiences of LGBTQ youth and adults in the juvenile and criminal justice systems; and interrogating how changing political and social contexts affect policy regarding formal responses to LGBTQ communities.
Prerequisites: SOC 201S or CRJS 215S
SOC 330 Society and the Individual (3 Credit Hours)
Social psychological theory and research on current topics of interest on the relationship of the individual to society.
Prerequisites: SOC 201S or permission of the instructor
SOC 337 Social Research Methods (3 Credit Hours)
An overview of the scientific approach to the study of social phenomena through quantitative, qualitative and mixed methods approaches. Interviews/survey and experimental/quasi-experimental designs and other strategies of social inquiry are covered.  The course includes the application of software to provide descriptive and inferential statistics to summarize data.
Prerequisites: CRJS 215S or SOC 201S , and STAT 130M
SOC 340 Sociology of Women (3 Credit Hours)
An exploration of the role and status of women in contemporary American society from a feminist sociological perspective.
Prerequisites: SOC 201S or six credits in human behavior or permission of the instructor
SOC 343 Sexualities in Society (3 Credit Hours)
This course offers an introduction to the sociological study of sexualities. This course focuses on the ways in which sexuality as a social institution and identity intersects with other hierarchies of privilege and inequality, such as race, social class, and gender. A range of topics will be covered including LGBTQ+ identities, the social construction of sexuality, historical accounts of sexual practices, and contemporary theories and research in sexualities studies.
Prerequisites: SOC 201S
SOC 344 Social Science and Crime Mapping (3 Credit Hours)
A critical exploration of applying geographic information system (GIS) to view, understand, question, interpret, and visualize social science and crime data that reveal relationships, patterns, and trends. Students will learn to 1) frame a research question or hypothesis from a location-based perspective; 2) collect, create and examine geographically referenced demographic, social, and criminological data; 3) learn to use GIS mapping software to visualize, manage and analyze this data in order to investigate the relationship between geographic, demographic, social and criminological variables; and 4) arrive upon decisions and conclusions and communicate these via the creation of publishable maps.
Prerequisites: SOC 201S or CRJS 215S or permission of the instructor
SOC 347 Sport Sociology (3 Credit Hours)
This course applies the sociological perspective to the world of sports. It provides the student with a better understanding of the social processes involved in sports. The course looks at how the media, community, tradition, and privilege play an integral role in the participation of sporting events. It also covers why sports exist, who plays sports, and what will become of sports in the future.
Prerequisites: SOC 201S OR CRJS 215S
SOC 348 Film and Society (3 Credit Hours)
Sociological examination of film as an art form, an industry, and a social institution. Major topics include socialization through film, how one’s unique socialization affects the film experience, social inequality (racism/ethnocentrism/sexism/ageism) as exhibited in film, and as they occur within the film industry, film as an educational tool, gender roles as exhibited in film and perpetuated within the film industry, film and copycat crime, crime in the film industry, portrayal of crime in film, international cinema and globalization.
Prerequisites: SOC 201S or permission of the instructor
SOC 355 Social Work and Society (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to introduce students to the profession of social work.  Students will investigate what social work is and how it is different from other helping professions.  Students will examine the theoretical and ethical underpinnings of social work, the different levels of intervention, and the major areas of practice. This course will also focus on the importance of cultural awareness as well as the role of social work in alleviating and at times maintaining systems of inequality and oppression.
Prerequisites: SOC 201S or permission of the instructor
SOC 368 Internship (1-6 Credit Hours)
This course allows students to volunteer in an agency related to their major for pass/fail credit.  Students must volunteer for 50 hours per course credit.  Internships for fewer than 3 credits require prior approval by the Internship Faculty Director.
Prerequisites: Permission of the department internship director
SOC 395 Topics in Sociology (3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics designed for nonmajors, or for elective credit within a major.  These courses will appear in the course schedule, and will be more fully described in information distributed to academic advisors.
Prerequisites: SOC 201S or permission of the instructor
SOC 396 Topics in Sociology (3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics designed for nonmajors, or for elective credit within a major.  These courses will appear in the course schedule, and will be more fully described in information distributed to academic advisors.
Prerequisites: SOC 201S or permission of the instructor
SOC 400/500 War and Gender (3 Credit Hours)
In this course students grapple with issues concerning war, gender roles, and gender inequality.  The course addresses gender roles in war throughout history, globally and across cultures.  However, the United States military and military involvement in the 20th and 21st century remain the primary focus areas.  Discussions include how social norms and ideals of masculinity and femininity shape, and in turn are shaped by, images and realities of war, including gendered aspects of nationalism and just war theories.  The military involvement of men, women (and children) in war and in peacetime, as participants and observers, perpetrators and victims, supporters and opponents of war is also discussed.
Prerequisites: SOC 201S and junior standing
SOC 402/502 Sociology of Child Welfare (3 Credit Hours)
A sociological analysis of the field of child welfare.  Topics include social inequality as it applies to children as a group in the U.S. and globally; understanding violence against children within the global context of children's rights; examining data on the degree to which policies, programs and research in the field fail to protect children and why; prevalence, causes and consequences of child sexual, physical and emotional abuse and neglect; evaluation of programs like 'family preservation' and of placement in 'substitute' care, i.e., foster care, adoption, institutionalization; changes that would protect and advance the interests and rights of children at the parent-child, agency, and societal level.
Prerequisites: SOC 201S
SOC 403 Violence in the World of Children (3 Credit Hours)
This 'child- centered' course examines the interaction of adults in violent conflict with the world of children, children's experience of violence and its meaning in the lives of children.  Topics include: valuing children, violence toward children in culture, families, and schools; child physical and sexual abuse and neglect; gangs, violent communities, and children and war.  The effects of childhood experiences of violence, children's coping with violence, and alternatives to violence are also developed.
Prerequisites: Six hours in the human behavior perspective or SOC 201S or CRJS 215S or permission of the instructor
SOC 405/505 Social Change and Social Movements (3 Credit Hours)
Analysis of the nature and causes of social change, major social movements, and their impact upon contemporary society.
Prerequisites: SOC 201S or permission of the instructor
SOC 407 Violence Against Children Internationally (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on the research on child maltreatment abuse internationally, in particular on the most common types of child abuse and neglect—i.e., perpetrated by parents, family members.  The negative effects of child abuse and neglect are associated subsequently with every social problem from poverty, teenage motherhood, substance abuse, violent crime, domestic violence, and mental health problems, to ill-health—from cancer to diabetes.
Prerequisites: SOC 201S or CRJS 215S
SOC 408 Children's Rights and the Law (3 Credit Hours)
A study of the law concerning children from a children's rights perspective. The rights of children in the US will be compared to other nations with special emphasis being placed on the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child.
Prerequisites: SOC 201S OR CRJS 215S or related human behavior Way of Knowing or permission of the instructor
SOC 409W Sociological Theory (3 Credit Hours)
The development of sociological thought during the nineteenth and twentieth centuries.  Analysis of major contributions to the development of systematic thinking in contemporary sociology.  This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: SOC 201S and a grade of C or better in ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C
SOC 418 Crime, Society and the Media (3 Credit Hours)
A critical exploration of media portrayals of crime and criminal justice. News and entertainment genres are examined. Connections between the mass media and crime, culture, politics, society, and individual behavior receive special attention. (cross listed with CRJS 418 )
Prerequisites: SOC 201S or CRJS 215S or permission of the instructor
SOC 419 Animals and Society (3 Credit Hours)
This is a class about the role of nonhuman animals in society. Animals are used to entertain, to do work, to provide companionship, to provide food, and more. In this class, we also discuss the causes and consequences of both individual and institutional animal abuse. Society's relation to wildlife is also an important component and includes poaching, sport and trophy hunting, and society's reaction to wolves, coyotes, and wild horses in the West. Cross-listed with CRJS 419 .
Prerequisites: Any human behavior (S) course, such as SOC 201S , CRJS 215S , PSYC 201S , COMM 200S , or permission of instructor
SOC 420W African American Political and Social Thought (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to introduce students to the historical and contemporary experiences of 'Blackness' as it has been constructed, contested and affirmed in various historical, political and narrative contexts.  Embracing the theme of duality, the course examines what it means for a culture and people to be both integral to and excluded from the American political and social community. This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: Grade of C or better in ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C and a General Education human behavior course
SOC 421/521 Deviant Behavior (3 Credit Hours)
A study of various definitions and forms of deviant behavior, theoretical explanations of causes of deviant behavior and the impact of deviant behavior on society and the individual.
Prerequisites: SOC 201S or CRJS 215S or permission of the instructor
SOC 423/523 Women, Health and Healing (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of women's experiences with health and illness and women's roles in the health-care system as patients and care providers from a feminist sociological perspective.
Prerequisites: Six hours of human behavior courses or permission of the instructor
SOC 426/526 Minority Group Relations (3 Credit Hours)
The study of the process of and responses to the oppression of racial, religious, ethnic, and national minorities in a variety of countries within a historical and comparative perspective.  Special emphasis given to American minorities and especially African Americans.
Prerequisites: SOC 201S or permission of the instructor
SOC 427/527 Gender-Based Violence (3 Credit Hours)
This course takes an expansive and intersectional approach to studying various forms of gender-based violence, from the interpersonal to the systemic, institutional, and cultural. Prevalence, risk factors, theoretical explanations, and legal remedies related to topics such as intimate partner violence, sexual assault on college campuses, gender-based violence in the military, sexual violence against undocumented immigrants, commercial sexual exploitation, and racism and reproductive health will be examined.
Prerequisites: SOC 201S or CRJS 215S or permission of the instructor
SOC 436 Capstone Research Project (3 Credit Hours)
Students work in groups to plan, design, and carry out a research project.  Final papers which report the results of the study are presented in a formal research seminar.  The projects are to reflect knowledge gained from undergraduate work and training received in STAT 130M and SOC 337 .
Prerequisites: SOC 337 and STAT 130M and senior status
SOC 438 Education and Society (3 Credit Hours)
Sociological theory and research investigating contemporary education as a social institution.
Prerequisites: SOC 201S or permission of the instructor
SOC 440/540 Health, Illness, and Society (3 Credit Hours)
The study of health, illness and society. After exploring how health is conceptualized by the prevailing allopathic medical model, an emergent alternative or "integrative" health perspective is examined with a focus on how wellbeing may be understood.
Prerequisites: SOC 201S or permission of the instructor
SOC 441/541 Drugs and Society (3 Credit Hours)
The study of sociological and social psychological explanations of drug-using behaviors and of legal and medical control of drugs.  Topics include changes in the legal status of drugs, cross-cultural and historical variations in the control and use of drugs, and social epidemiology of drug use in contemporary society.
Prerequisites: SOC 201S or CRJS 215S or permission of the instructor
SOC 444 Community Justice (3 Credit Hours)
This is a service learning course designed to study how the emerging field of community justice, a neighborhood-based strategy, can reduce crime and improve public safety by investing in social, human and cultural capital.
Prerequisites: SOC 201S or CRJS 215S
SOC 445 Workplace Law and Society (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the laws of the workplace from a sociological and issue-driven approach considering two perspectives – both employer and employee. Relevant laws are identified, explored and made relevant through examples of their application in real-world situations. Sometimes the wisdom of these laws will be challenged; students will be encouraged to raise questions about a law’s utility, justice or fairness, whether in principle or in application.
Prerequisites: Junior standing
SOC 451 Race, Ethnicity, Crime and Justice (3 Credit Hours)
This course will examine the intersectionality of race, ethnicity, crime, justice and the operation of the criminal justice system and will critically assess controversial issues surrounding race, ethnicity, crime, and justice. Students will discuss contemporary social justice issues as they relate to race, ethnicity, crime, and justice. The theoretical frameworks that explain the intersection between race, ethnicity, crime and justice will be examined. The course will also investigate the broad range of policy issues and recommendations impacting communities of color and the administration of criminal and social justice.
Prerequisites: CRJS 215S or SOC 201S
SOC 452 Diversity in Criminal Justice Organizations (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the impact of diversity, culture, and ethnic origin in criminal justice organizations.  The course is designed to better prepare students to meet the challenge of diversity in criminal justice organizations.
Prerequisites: SOC 201S or CRJS 215S or permission of instructor
SOC 494 Entrepreneurship in Sociology/Criminal Justice (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to help students enhance their personal and professional development through innovation guided by faculty members and professionals. It offers students an opportunity to integrate disciplinary theory and knowledge through developing a nonprofit program, product, business, or other initiative. The real-world experiences that entrepreneurships provided will help students understand how academic knowledge leads to transformations, innovations, and solutions to different types of problems. The course can be delivered either as an independent project for individual students or as group projects similar to those sometimes offered in topics courses.
Prerequisites: junior standing
SOC 495/595 Topics in Sociology (3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics designed to permit students to work on subjects of mutual interest which, due to their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly.  These courses will appear in the course schedule, and will be more fully described in information distributed to academic advisors.
Prerequisites: SOC 201S or permission of the instructor
SOC 496/596 Topics in Sociology (3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics designed to permit students to work on subjects of mutual interest which, due to their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly.  These courses will appear in the course schedule, and will be more fully described in information distributed to academic advisors.
Prerequisites: SOC 201S or permission of the instructor
SOC 497/597 Independent Study (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor.  Conferences and papers as appropriate.
Prerequisites: Senior standing and approval of the department chair
SOC 498/598 Tutorial Work in Special Topics in Sociology (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor.  Conferences and papers as appropriate.
Prerequisites: Senior standing and approval of the department chair
SOC 500 War and Gender (3 Credit Hours)
In this course students grapple with issues concerning war, gender roles, and gender inequality.  The course addresses gender roles in war throughout history, globally and across cultures.  However, the United States military and military involvement in the 20th and 21st century will remain the primary focus areas.  Discussions include how social norms and ideals of masculinity and femininity shape, and in turn are shaped by, images and realities of war, including gendered aspects of nationalism and just war theories.  The military involvement of men, women (and children) in war and in peacetime, as participants and observers, perpetrators and victims, supporters and opponents of war is also discussed.
SOC 502 Sociology of Child Welfare (3 Credit Hours)
A sociological analysis of the field of child welfare.  Topics include social inequality as it applies to children as a group in the U.S. and globally; understanding violence against children within the global context of children's rights; examining data on the degree to which policies, programs and research in the field fail to protect children and why; prevalence, causes and consequences of child sexual, physical and emotional abuse and neglect; evaluation of programs like 'family preservation' and placement in 'substitute' care, i.e. foster care, adoption, institutionalization; changes that would protect and advance the interests and rights of children at the parent-child, agency and societal level.
SOC 505 Social Change and Social Movements (3 Credit Hours)
Analysis of the nature and causes of social change, major social movements, and their impact upon contemporary society.
SOC 521 Deviant Behavior (3 Credit Hours)
A study of various definitions and forms of deviant behavior, theoretical explanations of causes of deviant behavior and the impact of deviant behavior on society and the individual.
SOC 523 Women, Health and Healing (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of women's experiences with health and illness and women's roles in the health-care system as patients and care providers from a feminist sociological perspective.
SOC 526 Minority Group Relations (3 Credit Hours)
The study of the process of and responses to the oppression of racial, religious, ethnic, and national minorities in a variety of countries within a historical and comparative perspective.  Special emphasis given to American minorities and especially African Americans.
SOC 527 Gender-Based Violence (3 Credit Hours)
This course takes an expansive and intersectional approach to studying various forms of gender-based violence, from the interpersonal to the systemic, institutional, and cultural. Prevalence, risk factors, theoretical explanations, and legal remedies related to topics such as intimate partner violence, sexual assault on college campuses, gender-based violence in the military, sexual violence against undocumented immigrants, commercial sexual exploitation, and racism and reproductive health will be examined.
SOC 540 Health, Illness, and Society (3 Credit Hours)
The study of health, illness and society.  After exploring how health is conceptualized by the prevailing allopathic medical model, an emergent alternative or "integrative" health perspective is examined with a focus on how wellbeing may be understood.
SOC 541 Drugs and Society (3 Credit Hours)
Topics include changes in the legal status of drugs, cross-cultural and historical variations in the control and use of drugs, and social epidemiology of drug use in contemporary society.
SOC 595 Topics in Sociology (3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics designed to permit qualified students to work on subjects of mutual interest which, due to their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly.  These courses will appear in the course schedule, and will be more fully described in information distributed to academic advisors.
SOC 596 Topics in Sociology (3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics designed to permit students to work on subjects of mutual interest which, due to their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly.  These courses will appear in the course schedule, and will be more fully described in information distributed to academic advisors.
SOC 597 Tutorial Work in Special Topics in Sociology (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor.  Conferences and papers as appropriate.
SOC 598 Tutorial Work in Special Topics in Sociology (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor.  Conferences and papers as appropriate.
SOC 610 Applied Social Research Methods (3 Credit Hours)
The application of social science methods to practical problems.  The topics of research design, measurement, scaling, sampling, data collection, and research organization are taught with reference to issues of reliability, validity and ethical concerns.
SOC 615 Perspectives on Racial Inequality (3 Credit Hours)
This course explores racial inequality in the United States.  The course is organized by the question: “Why, in 21st Century United States, are there still different social outcomes for the descendants of American slaves and descendants of European immigrants?”  Students are given a selection of materials from a variety of perspectives attempting to answer the question.
SOC 620 Proseminar in Sociological Theory (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of classical and contemporary sociological theories about the relations between the individual and society; the ways theory shapes and informs the study of social issues; and the relationship among theory, research and practice.
SOC 627 Violence Against Women (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the many ways in which violence against women functions as an agent of social control. Violence is viewed on a continuum in order to determine how a variety of acts contribute to the subordination of women.  Specific types of violence are explored including:  wife assault, rape, incest, sexual harassment and pornography.
SOC 630 Applied Social Statistics (3 Credit Hours)
This course is a graduate-level introduction to social statistics as they may be applied to various practical problems.  Students will learn the appropriate use of various statistical procedures through discussion and application.
Prerequisites: SOC 610
SOC 640 Sociological Application of Computer and Data Analysis (3 Credit Hours)
This course is a graduate-level introduction to the use of the computer in problems of data management and analysis.  Students will use existing software packages (e.g, SPSS, SAS) to build specified data files and carry out various statistical procedures.
Prerequisites: SOC 610
SOC 650 Research Seminar (3 Credit Hours)
This seminar integrates the skills needed to complete a master's thesis.  Exercises include formulating research questions, developing a research design, and writing a publishable paper.  Students practice these skills assignments in class and by completing their thesis proposal.
Prerequisites: SOC 610 , SOC 620 or CRJS 620 , SOC 630 , and SOC 640
SOC 668 Internship (3 Credit Hours)
Students gain first-hand experience in professional settings which are deemed appropriate given their academic background and career objectives.  Students will be required to complete a research project which corresponds to their specific internship placement.
Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor
SOC 695 Topics of Sociology (3 Credit Hours)
Topics vary each semester.
SOC 696 Topics of Sociology (3 Credit Hours)
Topics vary each semester.
SOC 697 Independent Study in Special Topics in Sociology (3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor.  Conferences and papers as appropriate.
Prerequisites: Approval of the department chair
SOC 698 Independent Study in Special Topics in Sociology (3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor.  Conferences and papers as appropriate.
Prerequisites: Approval of the department chair
SOC 699 Thesis (3-9 Credit Hours)
Credit hours to continue thesis work.
SOC 795 Topics in Sociology (3 Credit Hours)
Topics vary by semester.
Prerequisites: Six hours of graduate credit
SOC 797 Independent Study in Sociology (3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor.
Prerequisites: Approval of department chair and 6 hours of graduate credit
SOC 895 Topics in Sociology (3 Credit Hours)
Topics vary by semester.
Prerequisites: Six hours of graduate credit
SOC 897 Independent Study in Sociology (3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor.
Prerequisites: Approval of department chair and 6 hours of graduate credit
SOC 998 Master's Graduate Credit (1 Credit Hour)
This course is a pass/fail course for master's students in their final semester. It may be taken to fulfill the registration requirement necessary for graduation.  All master's students are required to be registered for at least one graduate credit hour in the semester of their graduation.
SOC 999 Doctoral Graduate Credit (1 Credit Hour)
This course is a pass/fail course doctoral students may take to maintain active status after successfully passing the candidacy examination.  All doctoral students are required to be registered for at least one graduate credit hour every semester until their graduation.
Search catalog
