New Enrollment Checklist
Congratulations! Welcome to the Monarch family.
Now that you're an ODU student, there are a few to-dos to get you started. Celebrate your next step by downloading Zoom and phone backgrounds to show your ODUGlobal pride!
A student success director will contact you after admission to help you plan your courses and get registered for class .
Image
Set Up Student Accounts
Learn Your University Identification Number (UIN)
Your UIN is a unique 8-digit number that you'll use to identify your student record. Your offer of admission letter has your UIN in it. Save it and be sure to use it in all university-related correspondence.
If you do not have have your UIN, please email register@odu.edu.
Activate Your MIDAS Account (Monarch Identification and Authorization System)
Your MIDAS user name and password give you access to ODU systems and resources. You'll use your MIDAS credentials to access important services such as your student email account, library services, live online classes, and ODU's learning management system. ODU Information Technology Services (ITS) has resources to help you activate your MIDAS account.
Login to MIDAS
Enroll in Two-Factor Authentication
This can be done when you activate your MIDAS account. This adds a second layer of security to online accounts and is a requirement for all students.
Log into the myODU Portal
The myODU portal has a checklist for new students, plus information and helpful links.
Access Your Accounts
ODU Student Email
Your ODU email account is activated automatically when you activate your MIDAS account. It's accessible about 10 minutes after your MIDAS account is activated.
All official ODU communications will go to your ODU student email address. Please check it often.
For help with your email account, please visit the ITS web page .
LEO Online
LEO Online is ODU’s student/employee information system. It provides access to official records, including personal information, grades, transcripts, registration, financial aid, and much more.
Undergraduate Students
Complete New Student Assessment
New freshmen are required to take the Transition to College Inventory. New transfer students must take the Transfer Student Survey. Each has two parts: an assessment and a biographical questionnaire. Watch your ODU student email account for an invitation to start this process.
Register for and complete the Undergraduate Writing Sample Placement Test
If you are not transferring credit for ENGL 110C, you must take the writing sample placement test. Your advisor will direct you on how to access and complete this test. Students who do not have credit for ENGL 110C must pass this test before the end of their second semester. Your student success advisor can help you decide the best time to take ENGL 110C, as it may be a prerequisite to other needed coursework.
Student Online Orientation
We have an online orientation to help make your admission experience a smooth one. Your enrollment coordinator will give you directions on how to access and complete the orientation.
Graduate Students
Complete CITI Training
All ODU graduate students must complete the Collaborative Institutional Training Initiative (CITI). CITI consists of seven core training modules in the fundamentals of responsible conduct of research. The goal is to enhance the professional development of all students, regardless of discipline.
You must complete the CITI training within your first year of enrollment at ODU. For instructions, please visit the Office of Research .
Old Dominion University
Gornto Hall, Norfolk, VA 23529
Footer
