Funding
Funding
Old Dominion University believes in the positive impact that student organizations can have to the overall Monarch community. In addition to leadership and management support, student organizations have access to various types of monetary support to apply towards annual activities and operational costs. Listed below are three different forms of financial support offered to student organizations registered with the University.
Need More Info?
Detailed information regarding the steps needed to apply for the funding options listed below are found on the SET Policies & Procedures page.
View SET Policies & Procedures
Annual Budgets
Each year, the Student Government Association reviews annual budget requests submitted by student organizations (that are registered as Recognized) outlining their anticipated operating costs for the upcoming year.
Each request is reviewed by the SGA Finance Committee as well as volunteer ODU Faculty/Staff, and a detailed amount of funding is allocated to the organization to be used throughout the upcoming year. New organizations applying for their first annual budget are limited to a $500 initial allocation.
Budget requests are submitted via Monarch Groups, information and deadlines on submitting the nudget will be advertised by Student Government Association. Additionally, several budget management and budget request training sessions are offered throughout the year. Organizations seeking to apply for an annual budget must attend one of these budget sessions prior to applying for an annual budget.
View 2019 - 2020 Student Organization allocations .
SET Finance Policies & Procedures
Student organizations that are allotted annual funding, contingencies, and sponsorships submit payment requests via Monarch Groups to be processed by the Student Engagement and Traditions Finance staff. There are a variety of different types of transactions student organizations are able to request following Commonwealth and University policies as well as the SGA financial bylaws. Transactions that can be made in advance on behalf of the organization are highly preferred. Each type of transaction has different components and a full explanation can be found in the SET Finance Policies & Procedures handbook.
All student organizations who receive funding must attend a Student Engagement & Traditions hosted budget workshop in the fall semester. This is different from the annual budget workshop hosted by SGA.
The last day to submit payment requests is the last day of classes in each semester.
