Total Credit Hours
114-120
Elective credit may be needed to meet the minimum of 120 credits required for the degree.
Additional Requirements and Information
Admission
For the most current information on the prescribed Virginia Board of Education admission assessment, visit the Office of Clinical Experiences website, https://www.odu.edu/oce .
Prescribed Virginia Board of Education Assessment for Admission to an Approved Teacher Education Program
Old Dominion University students seeking admission to an approved teacher education program must satisfy the Virginia Board of Education required assessment for admission into an approved teacher education program. The requirement can be satisfied by meeting a passing score in the following:
Virginia Communication and Literacy Assessment (VCLA): Scaled passing score of 235 for the reading subtest and score of 235 for the writing subtest OR a composite score of 470 for the assessment.
Students must have an interview with the program leader. Students must be admitted into the approved marketing education or technology education teacher preparation program prior to enrolling in SEPS 408 .
For the most current information on the prescribed Virginia Board of Education admission assessment, visit the Virginia Department of Education at https://www.doe.virginia.gov/ .
Continuance
Students in marketing education and technology education licensure programs must:
Satisfy University requirements.
Maintain a cumulative GPA of 2.75, a major GPA of 2.75 and a core GPA of 2.75 with no earned grade less than C- in all courses taken in the major and in the core.
Successfully complete SEPS 297 .
Take and pass the appropriate PRAXIS Subject Assessment (Technology Education – Content Knowledge, 5051 or Marketing Education – Content Knowledge, 5561) prior to or while enrolled in the Instructional Strategies course SEPS 408 . All assessments must be passed prior to the start of the Teacher Candidate Internship Orientation session.
Background Clearance Requirement
Old Dominion University requires a background clearance check of candidates interested in many of the professional education programs.  Professional education programs have several field experiences that are required for continuance and graduation from the program.  The background clearance must be successfully completed prior to a field experience placement. Candidates will be provided a field experience placement when the background check process is completed with resolution of any issues. The process to complete the ODU clearance background check is located at: https://www.odu.edu/oce/teacher-education/placement/background-checks .  The ODU clearance process includes:  an FBI fingerprint, a child protective service/social service review, and a Virginia State Police sex offender registry review. Candidates interested in the professional education programs are advised to complete this clearance process immediately upon entry into the program since the clearance process takes a minimum of eight weeks to complete.
Assessments Required for Teacher Education Programs and Licensure
In order to obtain a Virginia teaching license, all teacher education students must attain passing scores on the appropriate teacher licensure exams. Students are required to take and pass the Virginia Communication and Literacy Assessment (VCLA) with a scaled passing score of 235 for the reading subtest and score of 235 for the writing subtest OR a composite score of 470 or higher to be eligible for licensure. The VCLA should be taken during the semester prior to acceptance into teacher education. It is recommended that the VCLA be taken after students have completed their English and reading course requirements. All students will take and attain a passing score on the appropriate Praxis Subject Area Assessment (Technology Education – Content Knowledge, 5051 with a score of 162 or Marketing Education – Content Knowledge, 5561 with a score of 147) in order to be eligible for student teaching and licensure. Score reports of all examinations must be on file in the Office of Clinical Experiences in the Education Building. To review more information on the Virginia Board of Education Prescribed Assessments, visit the Office of Clinical Experiences website, https://www.odu.edu/oce .
Licensure/Endorsement Programs
Licensure Program in Marketing Teacher Education
The licensure program in marketing teacher education is designed to prepare a person who has a business-related baccalaureate degree to be a marketing education teacher-coordinator. Participants who successfully complete this program will qualify to apply for a Virginia teaching license to teach marketing education.
Admission
Prior to entering this program students must hold a business-oriented baccalaureate degree in which 30 hours of marketing-related courses have been completed including at least three semester hours each of courses covering the marketing process, economics, personnel, the sales process, operations and organization, and promotion. Students must also have completed a rigorous general education program as outlined by the Commonwealth in its Licensure Regulations for Teachers. They must be interviewed and accepted by the marketing education program leader. Finally, students must attain or exceed the minimum score required by Virginia on the Praxis I examination. The Praxis I exam must be passed prior to admittance into teacher education and taking SEPS 408 / SEPS 508 .
Exit
