No Undergraduate courses found.
PPCM 704 Methods of Public Program Evaluation (3 Credit Hours)
Examination of various methodologies for designing and conducting program evaluation and research. Experimental, quasi-experimental and nonexperimental procedures will be covered. (Cross listed with PADM 704 ).
PPCM 714 Public-Private Partnerships (3 Credit Hours)
An in-depth analysis of the forces behind the privatization movement. Examines the context of privatization, the theoretical and empirical arguments on both sides of the debate, and the different forms of privatization practiced in the U.S. The course draws on a wide range of disciplines in a quest for an understanding of the privatization phenomenon-political science, public administration, public policy, sociology, economics, management, and others. (Cross listed with PADM 714 ).
PPCM 718 Public Sector Contract Administration (3 Credit Hours)
Examines the actions that must be taken following the award of a contract, including assurance of required outcomes, assurance of compliance, proper contract launch, proper contract close-out, and documentation and carrying forward lessons learned. Connections to steps that must be taken in the other two phases of the procurement process are noted. (Course is cross listed with PADM 718 .)
PPCM 719 Leadership (3 Credit Hours)
Examines leadership through theoretical and practice-based frameworks. Offers analytical and intellectual examination and reflection on core issues in the practice of leadership. These objectives will be achieved through open discussion, honest self-assessment, experiential exercises, and observation of real-life leadership practice. (Cross listed with PADM 719 )
PPCM 726 Introduction to Public Procurement (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides an overview of procurement and contract management as a core function in public sector organizations. The course introduces the student to how properly-aligned, best practice acquisitions can support public entities' strategic goals. Challenges and opportunities for all stakeholders are addressed. Special attention is given to ongoing changes in public procurement. (Cross listed with PADM 726 )
PPCM 727 Public Procurement and Project Management (3 Credit Hours)
Course covers each phase of the public procurement project cycle, with an emphasis on tools and techniques to manage a public procurement project. (Cross listed with PADM 727 )
PPCM 728 Public Sector Contract Planning and Formation (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides insight into why and how public sector contracts should be planned and formed properly. A strong emphasis is placed on the strategic role that procurement can play in public sector organizations and how procurement planning and source selection, in particular, fit into that role. (Cross listed with PADM 728 )
PPCM 731 Public Sector Procurement Law and Ethics (3 Credit Hours)
This course surveys the laws and ethics applicable to public sector procurement and contract management. A theoretical and problem-based, interdisciplinary approach is used to address the major legal and ethical issues that arise when public sector organizations plan, form, and administer contracts. Attention is given to the role of professionalization in socializing appropriate ethics. (Cross listed with PADM 731 )
PPCM 734 Negotiation and Dispute Resolution (3 Credit Hours)
The course provides conceptual and practical skills in negotiations. It examines the underlying cultural, legal, and organizational issues and problems that affect managing human resources in the workplace. (Cross listed with PADM 734 )
PPCM 772 Public Financial Management (3 Credit Hours)
Examination of public sector financial principles, practices, and processes. A public manager's perspective of the decision making and practices of managing public funds. Introduction to governmental accounting practices. Emphasis on analyzing financial statements for decision making. Extensive use of Excel spreadsheet. Exploration of public financial management research and the link between public financial management practices and public fiscal and monetary policies.
PPCM 781 Intergovernmental Management (3 Credit Hours)
Analysis of relationships among federal, state, and local governmental units in the delivery of governmental programs. Focus on intergovernmental issues in urban metropolitan regions. (Cross listed with PADM 781 )
Search catalog
