No Undergraduate courses found.
HIED 708 Foundations of Higher Education (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of the historical foundations and contemporary challenges facing higher education leaders. Coursework encourages students to explore linkages between research, theory, and practice, promoting a nuanced understanding of differing perspectives on complex and evolving issues. Development of graduate-level writing is emphasized.
HIED 710 Student Affairs Administration (3 Credit Hours)
An overview of the student affairs function across diverse institutions, by connecting the history of higher education with contemporary issues facing student affairs professionals.  Students will spend time exploring various student affairs functions, connecting the importance of student learning and development outside the classroom.  In addition, students will explore the dynamics of student affairs organizations while identifying personal long- and short-term student affairs career goals.
Prerequisites: COUN 707
HIED 712 Strategic Planning (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides the necessary knowledge and skills for administrators to both participate in and lead a strategic planning effort. Students will explore the role of strategic planning and institutional effectiveness in the context of changes in funding and demands for accountability.
HIED 720 The Private College and University (3 Credit Hours)
The U.S. Higher Education system contains great diversity due to the inclusion of private institutions.  This course will examine the structure and organization of Higher Education in the U.S. as well as differences and similarities between private and public institutions.
HIED 725 Higher Education Politics and Policy (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines policy-in-action to help students understand how policies are developed at the organizational, state, and national levels, while gaining an understanding of the interplay of public perception and policymaking that can impact university operations. Students will explore the process by which policies are made, and they will consider why some problems are escalated to the public agenda, why some solutions are adopted and others rejected, and why some policies appear to succeed while others seem to fail.
HIED 733 Professional Helping Skills in Higher Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course explores the benefits of developing student response and support skills and how they affect the day-to-day role of a student affairs professional.  Students will work in small groups to acquire the knowledge, skills, and attitudes necessary to provide support, direction, and guidance to individuals and groups. Guest speakers currently working in student affairs roles will be featured.
HIED 743 Campus Internationalization (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the four key professional practices of campus internationalization: comprehensive internationalization, international student enrollment, international student and scholar services, and education abroad.  Students learn the importance of aligning internationalization on-campus through courses, curriculum, international students, and internationalization programs, all of which help to connect the institution to the changing local and global community. Guest speakers will address competencies for international educators and provide insights on functional areas in international education.
HIED 744 Global Higher Education Systems: A Comparative Approach (1-3 Credit Hours)
An examination of the development of the three primary systems of higher education in the world today: the U.S., British and European (Continental) systems. The course will also examine, as appropriate, other systems of higher education from around the world. A study abroad component is required, for which additional costs will apply.
HIED 745 Today’s College Student (3 Credit Hours)
A survey of college student experiences, with an emphasis on growth and development. Coursework will encourage students to apply theory to practice.
HIED 752 The Law of Higher Education (3 Credit Hours)
An exploration of the legal issues facing higher education in the United States. Topics to be discussed include the foundations from which higher education law emerges, current case law, state and federal statutory law, and contract law, as well as risk management and liability issues. Students may have the opportunity to visit the Supreme Court and to view oral arguments. Additionally, the course will address the ethical issues faced when shaping and implementing institutional policy, curriculum, and procedures.
HIED 756 Institutional Finance and Resource Management (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the budget process in colleges and universities, as well as the impact of budget activities on all areas of planning and operations within an institution. It will cover elements of educational finance, including budgeting and resource management, with a focus on process and environmental factors that affect how institutions operate. Students will develop and enhance their abilities to write and speak effectively about finance-related issues.
HIED 757 Learning Environment Design and Assessment (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides students with skills to design educational experiences, plan educational programs, and conduct research on a variety of teaching and learning-related questions. Participants will consider the meaning of learning and the various contextual factors that influence the learning process in higher education, as well as the application of the learning sciences to the design of learning environments. Students will focus on creating inclusive, diverse, and equitable educational environments and use their insights to improve the practices through assessment.
HIED 758 Higher Education Leadership (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides students with the basic theory, knowledge and skills needed to be an effective leader within higher education institutions. Classes are designed for those who intend to pursue careers as higher education practitioners. Course assignments will take a practical approach to applying theoretical principles and identifying students' personal leadership styles.
HIED 761 Higher Education Capstone (3 Credit Hours)
The culminating experience for the master's degree, intended to integrate and apply the knowledge gained in the degree program to complex issues regarding policy and practice in higher education. Groups of students address a real world problem currently faced by a department or unit on campus and work on comprehensive portfolios.
HIED 762 Institutional Advancement (3 Credit Hours)
An exploration of institutional advancement in the areas of institutional marketing, event management, campaign development, social media, donor identification and cultivation, planned giving, corporate partnership development, and foundation management.
HIED 763 Topical Issues in Higher Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides a thorough analysis and dissection of a rotating, current issue in higher education, covering a broad range of higher education administrative areas. For each issue, students will examine relevant benchmark law, contemporary issues, historical perspectives, political realities, institutional missions and cultures, ethical considerations, leadership and management approaches, and courses of action available to decision-makers.
HIED 764 College and the University Presidency (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide greater understanding of the leadership role of college and university presidents and the multiplex of issues associated with the office of the presidency at the various types of American institutions.  The course will utilize case study analysis, guest presentation, and review of the literature.  There will be rigorous discussion, readings, and analyses in a collegial and reciprocal learning environment.
HIED 765 Adult and Continuing Education (3 Credit Hours)
An advanced seminar emphasizing the historical, philosophical, and institutional analyses of the development and status of adult and continuing education within the higher education community.
HIED 768 Internship in Higher Education Administration (3 Credit Hours)
The University advisor and site supervisor work together with students to develop and implement a set of objectives intended to familiarize them with the operation of an administrative area within an institution of higher education, to assist them in acquiring the practical skills necessary for the operation of that office, and to develop skills that are transferable to other administrative areas.
HIED 770 External and Internal Relations for Higher Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course serves as an introduction for prospective and current administrators to the social and political context of the higher education environment and its various constituencies.  It will teach them to recognize the impact of politics, socioeconomic situations, diversity, media, monetary issues, and equity issues on their leadership practices.
HIED 771 Global and Intercultural Perspectives in Higher Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course explores global and intercultural issues for higher education leaders. Students examine issues encountered by student affairs and higher education professionals from global and intercultural perspectives, including program design and evaluation, partnerships between individuals and organizations worldwide, and budgeting and staff management. The course will prepare students with knowledge and skills that can be used to promote internationally-oriented practice, professional dialogue, and research.
HIED 793 History of Higher Education (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of the history of higher education and its connection to current higher education events. The course provides an understanding of the foundations of higher education, including European influences, societal forces, and economic factors.
HIED 794 Governance, Organization, and Administration of Higher Education (3 Credit Hours)
An exploration of how organizational structures, behavior, culture, and context influence institutional governance and administration. In-class activities examine the approaches institutions use in decision-making. Through discussion of assigned readings, current events, and guest lectures, students learn how institutions govern themselves and the effects of various governance practices. Case studies, role playing, and active discussion allow students to apply theoretical perspectives to the practical workings of higher education administration.
HIED 795 Topics in Higher Education Administration (1-6 Credit Hours)
Study of selected topics in higher education administration.
Prerequisites: permission of the instructor
HIED 797 Independent Study (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent study of special topics in higher education for master's students.
Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor
HIED 805 Contemporary Issues in Higher Education (3 Credit Hours)
Explores issues of contemporary concern among practitioner-scholars in American higher education. The course utilizes a historical perspective to establish the background for the discussion of the issues influencing higher education today. Coursework and readings provide a nuanced understanding of differing perspectives on complex issues. Research and professional practice are examined through an issues based format that challenges students to develop and support their perspectives on the issues discussed. Doctoral-level writing is emphasized.
HIED 808 Foundations of Higher Education (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of the historical foundations and contemporary challenges facing higher education leaders. Coursework encourages students to explore linkages between research, theory, and practice, promoting a nuanced understanding of differing perspectives on complex and evolving issues. Development of graduate-level writing is emphasized.
HIED 809 Proseminar in Doctoral Studies (1-3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to be taken in three parts throughout the program. It provides information on the doctoral process to help students successfully navigate their programs. It helps doctoral students enhance their abilities to search the scholarly literature; narrow their research topics; and improve their critical reading and inquiry, critical thinking and analysis, and writing. It focuses on approaches to scholarly writing in the field, strategies for inviting and providing peer review and feedback, and skills useful in analytical reading of scholarly work.
HIED 810 Student Affairs Administration (3 Credit Hours)
An overview of the student affairs function across diverse institutions, by connecting the history of higher education with contemporary issues facing student affairs professionals.  Students will spend time exploring various student affairs functions, connecting the importance of student learning and development outside the classroom.  In addition, students will explore the dynamics of student affairs organizations while identifying personal long- and short-term student affairs career goals.
HIED 812 Strategic Planning (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides the necessary knowledge and skills for administrators both to participate in and lead a meaningful strategic planning effort. Students will explore the role of strategic planning and institutional effectiveness in the context of changes in funding and demands for accountability.
HIED 820 The Private College and University (3 Credit Hours)
The U.S. Higher Education system contains great diversity due to the inclusion of private institutions.  This course will examine the structure and organization of Higher Education in the U.S. as well as differences and similarities between private and public institutions.
HIED 825 Higher Education Politics and Policy (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines policy-in-action to help students understand how policies are developed at the organizational, state, and national levels, while gaining an understanding of the interplay of public perception and policymaking that can impact university operations. Students will explore the process by which policies are made, and they will consider why some problems are escalated to the public agenda, why some solutions are adopted and others rejected, and why some policies appear to succeed while others seem to fail.
HIED 833 Professional Helping Skills in Higher Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course explores the benefits of developing student response and support skills and how they affect the day-to-day role of a student affairs professional.  Students will work in small groups to acquire the knowledge, skills, and attitudes necessary to provide support, direction, and guidance to individuals and groups. Guest speakers currently working in student affairs roles will be featured.
HIED 843 Campus Internationalization (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the four key professional practices of campus internationalization: comprehensive internationalization, international student enrollment, international student and scholar services, and education abroad.  Students learn the importance of aligning internationalization on-campus through courses, curriculum, international students, and internationalization programs, all of which help to connect the institution to the changing local and global community. Guest speakers will address competencies for international educators and provide insights on functional areas in international education.
HIED 844 Global Higher Education Systems: A Comparative Approach (1-3 Credit Hours)
An examination of the development of the three primary systems of higher education in the world today: the U.S., British and European (Continental) systems. The course will also examine, as appropriate, other systems of higher education from around the world. A study abroad component is required, for which additional costs will apply.
HIED 845 Today’s College Student (3 Credit Hours)
A survey of college student experiences, with an emphasis on growth and development. Coursework will encourage students to apply theory to practice.
HIED 852 The Law of Higher Education (3 Credit Hours)
An exploration of the legal issues facing higher education in the United States. Topics to be discussed include the foundations from which higher education law emerges, current case law, state and federal statutory law, and contract law, as well as risk management and liability issues. Students may have the opportunity to visit the Supreme Court and to view oral arguments. Additionally, the course will address the ethical issues faced when shaping and implementing institutional policy, curriculum, and procedures.
HIED 856 Institutional Finance and Resource Management (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the budget process in colleges and universities, as well as the impact of budget activities on all areas of planning and operations within an institution. It will cover elements of educational finance, including budgeting and resource management, with a focus on process and environmental factors that affect how institutions operate. Students will develop and enhance their abilities to write and speak effectively about finance-related issues.
HIED 857 Learning Environment Design and Assessment (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides students with skills to design educational experiences, plan educational programs, and conduct research on a variety of teaching and learning-related questions. Participants will consider the meaning of learning and the various contextual factors that influence the learning process in higher education, as well as the application of the learning sciences to the design of learning environments. Students will focus on creating inclusive, diverse, and equitable educational environments and use their insights to improve the practices through assessment.
HIED 858 Higher Education Leadership (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides students with the basic theory, knowledge and skills needed to be an effective leader within higher education institutions. Classes are designed for those who intend to pursue careers as higher education practitioners. Course assignments will take a practical approach to  applying theoretical principles and identifying students' personal leadership styles.
HIED 862 Institutional Advancement (3 Credit Hours)
An exploration of institutional advancement in the areas of institutional marketing, event management, campaign development, social media, donor identification and cultivation, planned giving, corporate partnership development, and foundation management.
HIED 863 Topical Issues in Higher Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides a thorough analysis and dissection of a rotating, current issue in higher education, covering a broad range of higher education administrative areas. For each issue, students will examine relevant benchmark law, contemporary issues, historical perspectives, political realities, institutional missions and cultures, ethical considerations, leadership and management approaches, and courses of action available to decision-makers.
HIED 864 College and the University Presidency (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide greater understanding of the leadership role of college and university presidents and the multiplex of issues associated with the office of the presidency at the various types of American institutions.  The course will utilize case study analysis, guest presentation, and review of the literature.  There will be rigorous discussion, readings, and analyses in a collegial and reciprocal learning environment.
HIED 865 Adult and Continuing Education (3 Credit Hours)
An advanced seminar emphasizing the historical, philosophical, and institutional analyses of the development and status of adult and continuing education within the higher education community.
HIED 868 Internship in Higher Education Administration (3 Credit Hours)
The University advisor and site supervisor work together with students to develop and implement a set of objectives intended to familiarize them with the operation of an administrative area within an institution of higher education, to assist them in acquiring the practical skills necessary for the operation of that office, and to develop skills that are transferable to other administrative areas.
HIED 870 External and Internal Relations for Higher Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course serves as an introduction for prospective and current administrators to the social and political context of the higher education environment and its various constituencies.  It will teach them to recognize the impact of politics, socioeconomic situations, diversity, media, monetary issues, and equity issues on their leadership practices.
HIED 871 Global and Intercultural Perspectives in Higher Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course explores global and intercultural issues for higher education leaders. Students examine issues encountered by student affairs and higher education professionals from global and intercultural perspectives, including program design and evaluation, partnerships between individuals and organizations worldwide, and budgeting and staff management. The course will prepare students with knowledge and skills that can be used to promote internationally-oriented practice, professional dialogue, and research.
HIED 893 History of Higher Education (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of the history of higher education and its connection to current higher education events. The course provides an understanding of the foundations of higher education, including European influences, societal forces, and economic factors.
HIED 894 Governance, Organization, and Administration of Higher Education (3 Credit Hours)
An exploration of how organizational structures, behavior, culture, and context influence institutional governance and administration. In-class activities examine the approaches institutions use in decision-making. Through discussion of assigned readings, current events, and guest lectures, students learn how institutions govern themselves and the effects of various governance practices. Case studies, role playing, and active discussion allow students to apply theoretical perspectives to the practical workings of higher education administration.
HIED 895 Topics in Higher Education Administration (1-6 Credit Hours)
Study of selected topics in higher education administration.
Prerequisites: permission of the instructor
HIED 897 Independent Study (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent study of special topics in higher education for doctoral students.
Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor
HIED 899 Dissertation (1-12 Credit Hours)
Work on dissertation under the direction of dissertation chair.
Prerequisites: Permission of faculty advisor
HIED 998 Master's Graduate Credit (1 Credit Hour)
This course is a pass/fail course for master's students in their final semester. It may be taken to fulfill the registration requirement necessary for graduation.  All master's students are required to be registered for at least one graduate credit hour in the semester of their graduation.
HIED 999 Doctoral Graduate Credit (1 Credit Hour)
This course is a pass/fail course doctoral students may take to maintain active status after advancement to candidacy. All doctoral students are required to be registered for at least one graduate credit hour every semester until their graduation.
Search catalog
