Military Leadership
Centers and Institutes
The College has several external units that enhance and support the academic programs. These units, listed below, offer opportunities for faculty members and students to interact with representatives of business, industry and government regionally, nationally, and globally.
Dragas Center for Economic Analysis and Policy
The primary objectives of the center are to conduct research and develop a knowledge base relating to regional issues concerning Hampton Roads. In addition, via its annual State of the Region report, the center provides a forum for analysis and discussions of vital issues relating to the region and its cities.
Harvey Lindsay School of Real Estate
The Harvey Lindsay School of Real Estate at ODU embraces a comprehensive multi-disciplinary approach to real estate education. The faculty bring real-world experience to the classroom to engage students in a curriculum that will assist in developing the analytical and professional skills necessary for a career in real estate or economic development.  Students enjoy access to research programs involving real-time development issues in the Hampton Roads community, as well as internship opportunities throughout the region and beyond.
Hudgins Transitional Entrepreneurship Lab
The Lab has a three-pronged mission. The first goal is to develop entrepreneurship skill-sets among individuals in the following groups in the Hampton Roads community: veterans, individuals in economically-distressed communities, women, immigrants and refugees.  In addition, the Lab will develop and disseminate research focused on entrepreneurship among transitional communities. Finally, the Lab will offer students an opportunity to work on projects and activities that are entrepreneurial and community-minded to drive economic development, particularly in disadvantaged communities, with priority given to the Greater Peninsula region.
Insurance and Financial Services Center
The Insurance and Financial Services Center supports undergraduate and graduate curricula in the disciplines of professional financial planning and risk and insurance. In addition, it provides for active involvement with the Eastern Virginia financial services community as a placement, research, consultative, and resource agency. The center further supports educational programs and seminars for the profession including a professional development program for practitioners that leads to the designation of Professional Financial Planner (PFP).
Loyalty Science Lab
The Loyalty Science Lab houses the Customer Analytics and Strategy Collaboratory (CASC). The goal is to bridge businesses and academia for collaborative inquiry and educational endeavors on turning customer data into actionable marketing strategy through advanced analytics. Faculty and student teams work with business partners to identify critical, long-standing marketing and customer challenges that research can help solve. Combining years of experience in retail, finance, travel and other sectors, we aim to create mutually beneficial relationships that help businesses answer their important questions, help our researchers do more relevant research, and help our students gain important learning experiences.
Strome Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation
The Strome Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation aims to spur a vibrant entrepreneurship and innovation ecosystem among ODU’s student population.  Open to all students across all disciplines, the Center serves as a resource for those students wanting to start a venture as well as those students interested in learning about entrepreneurship and innovation.
Thurmond School of Professional Sales and Negotiations
The core mission of the School is to provide negotiation, sales, and communication skills education. Specifically, the Thurmond School of Professional Sales and Negotiations serves four communities: (1) practitioners, (2) the local community, (3) ODU students and (4) academic scholars. The School is a boundary-spanning organization that engages in customized training sessions, hosts events, and provides research opportunities related to negotiation, sales, and communication skills. A core value of the School is to empower women and minorities through customized negotiation skills education.
E.V. Williams Center for Real Estate
The mission of the E.V. Williams Center for Real Estate is to connect the multi-disciplinary analyses, innovative curriculum and research underway at Old Dominion University with students, industry and the public sector interested and engaged in the real estate and economic development communities. By hosting topical seminars on key development issues and working closely with real estate and economic development professionals, the E.V. Williams Center builds relationships throughout the community, to facilitate research, growth and development. The E.V. Williams Center publishes annual real estate market reviews on the office, industrial, retail, single family and multi-family real estate markets and sponsors the Hampton Roads Real Estate Market Review and Forecast.
Search catalog
