Graduate Courses
MGMT 325 Contemporary Organizations and Management (3 Credit Hours)
The fundamentals of the managerial process (planning, organizing, leading and controlling) are considered in the context of 21st century organizations. Topics are almost evenly split between macro and micro perspectives
Prerequisites: A declared major in the University or an intended major in the Strome College of Business or permission of the Dean's Office of the Strome College, AND Junior Standing
MGMT 327 Business Communication (3 Credit Hours)
This course is an introduction to the importance and centrality of communication in business. Students will learn the application of business communication principles by working both individually and collaboratively on communicating through effective business documents, presentations, professional written and oral correspondence, and use of digital media. Attention will be given to both interpersonal and group audiences, as well as formal and informal delivery.
Prerequisites: MGMT 325
MGMT 330 Organizational Behavior (3 Credit Hours)
This class examines theories and concepts pertaining to people at work. Topics include personality differences, motivation principles, high-performing work teams, and leadership development.
Prerequisites: Junior standing
Pre- or corequisite: MGMT 325
MGMT 336 International Entrepreneurship (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides students knowledge of fundamental issues and opportunities facing entrepreneurial ventures on the global stage. Students are exposed to core theories, contemporary trends, and cutting-edge research in international entrepreneurship. Students will examine what motivates entrepreneurs to seek foreign markets, and how to leverage cultural differences.  The course discusses frameworks to analyze key factors and risks involved with venturing abroad, and assessing the strategies and resources needed for international success.
Prerequisites: MGMT 325
MGMT 340 Human Resource Management (3 Credit Hours)
This class examines all issues pertaining to managing people in an organization. Topics include strategic planning for Human Resources, recruitment and selection systems, performance evaluation and development programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, and diversity management.
Pre- or corequisite: MGMT 330
MGMT 350 Employee Relations Problems and Practices (3 Credit Hours)
Examines personnel topics such as absenteeism, substance abuse, theft, gambling and counseling problem employees.  Policies and practices used by organizations to anticipate and resolve these problems are explored and evaluated.
Prerequisites: junior standing, and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
MGMT 360 Labor Management Relations (3 Credit Hours)
A contextual study of the trade union movement and its development, structure and processes.  Emphasizes the impact of union organization on management practice and effectiveness in both private and public sector organizations.
Prerequisites: MGMT 340 , and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
MGMT 361 International Business Operations (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of the environment of multinational business, foreign trade, and the operation of multinational enterprises.  Management, marketing, accounting, and financial problems unique to enterprises operating in varying economic, cultural, and political legal environments are investigated. This course includes a CAP experience.  International business majors may not take MGMT 361 for credit.
Prerequisites: FIN 323 , MKTG 311 and MGMT 325 , and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
MGMT 367 Cooperative Education (1-6 Credit Hours)
May be repeated for credit. Available for pass/fail grading only.  Student participation for credit based on the academic relevance of the work experience, criteria, and evaluative procedures as formally determined by the department and Career Development Services prior to the semester in which the work experience is to take place.
Prerequisites: MGMT 325 and approval by the department and Career Development Services, in accordance with the policy for granting credit for cooperative education programs, and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
MGMT 368 Management Internship (1-3 Credit Hours)
Approval for enrollment and allowable credits is determined by the department and the Career Development Services in the semester prior to enrollment.  Available for pass/fail grading only.  (qualifies as a CAP experience)
Prerequisites: MGMT 325 , and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
MGMT 369 Management Practicum (1-3 Credit Hours)
Approval for enrollment is determined by the Management CAP advisor and the Career Development Services in the semester prior to enrollment.  Student will participate in a relevant work setting.  (qualifies as a CAP experience)
Prerequisites: MGMT 325 , and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office; transfer students must have completed one semester at Old Dominion University
MGMT 410 Leadership in Organizations (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide students with a comprehensive understanding of leadership as a phenomenon impacting individuals, organizations, and the larger society. Major leadership theories are examined along with processes through which leadership influences various internal and external organizational factors. Leadership traits, behaviors, styles, communication, and the dynamic nature of leader-follower developments will be addressed. Methods of instruction include case studies, experiential exercises, and simulations.
Prerequisites: MGMT 325 or permission of the Dean's office
MGMT 417/517 Employment Law (3 Credit Hours)
An analysis of how the federal and state governments may regulate the employer-employee relationship.  Topics include labor relations law, equal employment opportunity law, other current statutory employment law and common law employment issues.
Prerequisites: junior standing and MGMT 325 or MGMT 602 , and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
MGMT 418 Advanced Human Resource Management: Contemporary Issues (3 Credit Hours)
An in-depth analysis of current issues and concerns within human resources management. The course will focus on specific issues and problems associated with the law and equal employment opportunity, employee selection, training and development, performance management/appraisal, and compensation.  Methods of instruction include cases, exercises and PC applications.
Prerequisites: junior standing and MGMT 325 and MGMT 340 , and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
MGMT 420 Business Development (3 Credit Hours)
Course focuses on assessing the strategies, tactics, dilemmas, processes and solutions associated with developing a new business. Emphasis is devoted to how new ventures should raise rates (sales, prices, productivity), decrease costs, promote and execute while pursuing innovation. The course explores a wide variety of actual small business case studies to illuminate the critical strategic, operational and behavioral considerations necessary to build a successful enterprise, including rollouts (duplicating a business model in multiple locations), rollups (acquiring similar businesses to accelerate growth), and franchises.
Prerequisites: MGMT 325 and ACCT 201
MGMT 424 Technology and Innovation Management (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on three core elements of managing innovation and technology in small and large organizations. First, it teaches in-depth analysis of how innovations can transform companies and industries, including who gains and loses from such developments. Second, it explains how organizations can organize to create innovations internally and externally, and how they can take advantage of opportunities while mitigating threats in technology and innovation development. Third, it discusses how firms benefit and prosper by using various methods of commercialization and protecting new technologies and innovation.
Prerequisites: MGMT 325
MGMT 426 Entrepreneurship: New Ventures Creation (3 Credit Hours)
A study of the essential elements leading to entrepreneurial and intrapreneurial success with emphasis on the creation, structure and management of new ventures.  A recommended elective for business students.
Prerequisites: ENTR 301 OR ACCT 201 , MKTG 311 , MGMT 325 , and must have senior standing
MGMT 427 Business and Society (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of the relationship between business (usually the individual firm, but occasionally a group of firms in an industry or a set of headline-makers in different industries) and society (an individual, group of people, the general public, or government entity representing the interests of this individual or group or the public).  Emphasizes stakeholders and ethics.  The course material is both philosophical and practical for executives and informative and practical for citizens.
Prerequisites: MGMT 325 , 3 hours of ACCT and 3 hours of ECON, and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
MGMT 430 Compensation Management (3 Credit Hours)
This class examines issues pertaining to developing, evaluating, and re-designing an organization's direct and indirect compensation systems. Topics include pay structure, incentive plans, benefit programs, and special cases such as executive compensation.
Prerequisites: Senior standing, MGMT 325 , a C- or higher in MGMT 340 , and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
MGMT 440 Human Resource Staffing Strategies (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines both research and practice regarding the strategic recruitment, selection, and development of top talent in organizations. Discussion topics include understanding and planning for talent needs, use of current recruitment methods and selection techniques, development of both internal and external talent pools, and the influences of external and internal changes due to competitive business environments and job design/redesign initiatives. The strategic and legal context of employment decision making is emphasized.
Prerequisites: MGMT 325 , MGMT 330 , and MGMT 340
MGMT 450 Performance Measurement and Management (3 Credit Hours)
The role of performance management (PM) systems (performance measurement, appraisal, and development) is critical to organizational and workers success. This course focuses on how an effective PM system created in alignment with an organization’s strategy, mission, values, and product or services, can attract, develop, and retain top-performers. We will discuss how PM systems are tied to reward systems and will examine the legal regulations to which an organization must adhere. Topics include performance appraisals, coaching, feedback, reward systems, and related management activities.
Prerequisites: MGMT 325 , MGMT 330 , and MGMT 340
MGMT 452/552 Negotiations and Change Management (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on negotiations and change. Students will develop analytical, interpersonal, and communication skills, with an emphasis placed on experiential learning through case studies, role playing, and simulations.
Prerequisites: MGMT 325 or permission of the Dean's Office
MGMT 460 Human Resource Analytics (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides an introduction to the use of people analytics to optimize HR processes. Students will learn about human resource analytics tools, technologies, and tasks. Topics include: modeling employee turnover, optimizing training and development, evaluating recruitment strategies, and identifying sources of pay inequity. Students will also receive training on ADP’s Workforce Now cloud-based Human Resource information system.
Prerequisites: Senior standing and MGMT 325 , MGMT 330 , and MGMT 340
MGMT 462 Comparative International Management (3 Credit Hours)
The course examines organizational structure and functioning from cross-cultural and cross-national perspectives.  Compares how management practices differ from one society to another.  Comparisons are made between the U.S., Western Europe, Japan, the USSR, China, and the Third World nations.
Prerequisites: senior standing and MGMT 325 , and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
MGMT 463/563 Management Seminar Abroad (3 Credit Hours)
A study tour abroad under the direction of a faculty member including on-site visits and management lectures designed to provide insight into differences in management practices in foreign countries.  Offered summers only and when available.
Prerequisites: permission of the chief departmental advisor, and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
MGMT 465 SHRM Learning System (3 Credit Hours)
This is a course based on the SHRM (Society for Human Resource Management) Learning System® for SHRM-CP/SHRM-SCP. Comprised of comprehensive learning modules teaching the SHRM Body of Applied Skills and Knowledge™ (SHRM BASK™), and advanced online multimedia resources, these study materials streamline study time, accelerate learning and build confidence for passing the SHRM-CP/SHRM-SCP exam. The course tuition includes all books, including one year access to the SHRM online learning resources, but does not include registration for the SHRM-CP/SHRM-SCP examinations.
Prerequisites: MGMT 325 , MGMT 330 , and MGMT 340
MGMT 485W Business Policy and Strategy (3 Credit Hours)
Strategic management addresses the concerns of the high level executive or general manager, who must use a perspective that is qualitatively different from that of the lower-level functional manager or operations manager.  Strategic decisions cut across functional lines.  Whereas other courses focus on competency at a functional level (Are we doing things right?), this course deals with the overall effectiveness of the total organization (Are we doing the right things?).  This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C ; senior standing, FIN 323 , MGMT 325 , MKTG 311 , and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
MGMT 490 Management Consulting (3 Credit Hours)
An exploration of the consulting industry and its role in driving improvements across various types of organizations. Students will learn problem-solving frameworks used to direct decision making as well as real-world communication and project management skills.
Pre- or corequisite: MGMT 485W
MGMT 495/595 Selected Topics in Management (3 Credit Hours)
Designed to provide advanced students in management an opportunity to study administration in highly specialized areas under the guidance of a faculty member.
Prerequisites: permission of the chief departmental advisor/graduate program director
MGMT 497 Independent Study in Management (3 Credit Hours)
Designed to provide advanced students in management an opportunity for independent study of selected areas under the guidance of a faculty member.
Prerequisites: permission of the chief departmental advisor, and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
MGMT 517 Employment Law (3 Credit Hours)
An analysis of how the federal and state governments may regulate the employer-employee relationship. Topics include labor relations law, equal employment opportunity law, other current statutory employment law and common law employment issues.
MGMT 552 Negotiations and Change Management (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on negotiations and change. Students will develop analytical, interpersonal, and communication skills, with an emphasis placed on experiential learning through case studies, role playing, and simulations.
MGMT 563 Management Seminar Abroad (3 Credit Hours)
A study tour abroad under the direction of a faculty member including on-site visits and management lectures designed to provide insight into differences in management practices in foreign countries.  Offered summers only and when available.
Prerequisites: permission of the chief departmental advisor
MGMT 595 Topics (3 Credit Hours)
MGMT 599 Selected Topics in Human Resources (3 Credit Hours)
MGMT 602 Organizational Management (3 Credit Hours)
Examine issues and principles in the management of individuals, groups, and organizations.  Topics include motivation and reward systems, groups dynamics and team building organization design and change.
MGMT 605 Leadership Dynamics (2 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on providing students with the foundations of leadership by reviewing past leadership research and integrating this into their own understanding of what makes one an effective leader.  Contemporary concepts of leadership, including the role of culture and gender, will also be presented.  The course will utilize self-assessments, case analysis, and leadership-related readings that will require students to think critically about what leaders do and how their own strengths and limitations influence their personal leadership development.
Prerequisites: Admission to the MBA Program
MGMT 612 Managing in Contemporary Organizations (2 Credit Hours)
This course provides a critical analysis of organizational theories used to understand and predict employee attitudes and behaviors. Implications, in terms of applying theories to address management issues and optimize human resource practices, are evaluated. Topics include job satisfaction, motivation, stress, and decision making.
Prerequisites: Admission to the MBA Program, MBA 600 , and MBA 621 or MBA 600 , MBA 601, MBA 602, MBA 603 and MBA 604
MGMT 618 Issues in Human Resource Management (3 Credit Hours)
An analysis and evaluation of current human resource practices and problems. Examines topics such as human resource planning, selection, development, and compensation.
MGMT 621 Strategic Management (3 Credit Hours)
This course introduces students to the discipline of strategic management and discusses concepts/theories/frameworks that are used in the formulation and implementation of strategies.  Additionally, students discuss cases, simulation and examples that describe the strategic issues confronting organizations and how they successfully (or unsuccessfully) resolved them.  The course should help students develop a disciplined, rigorous, and comprehensive approach to analyzing firm environment and resources and formulating and implementing strategy.  In addition, the course should help students understand the challenges and common pitfalls involved in strategy formulation and implementation.
Pre- or corequisite: MBA 607 and MGMT 612
MGMT 630 Motivation and Leadership (3 Credit Hours)
This course addresses how managers and organizations can enhance employee productivity and job satisfaction in a competitive global environment. Both the theories and practices of motivation and leadership will be examined.
MGMT 668 Management Internship (1-3 Credit Hours)
This course is a practicum in management, applying theories, concepts, and management techniques in a business setting.
Prerequisites: Graduate standing and permission of the department chair
MGMT 695 Selected Topics in Management (1-3 Credit Hours)
Study designed for students who have one or more of the required courses waived, or for students desiring additional work in an area of particular interest in management.
Prerequisites: permission of the department chair and the graduate program director
MGMT 721 International Strategic Management (3 Credit Hours)
This course deals with various strategic options available to businesses operating in an international environment. It explores the literature and case materials on multinational companies and the theories and concepts relevant to the analysis of international strategic decisions.
Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor
MGMT 750 Business Policy and Strategy (3 Credit Hours)
A capstone integrative course on strategy formulation and implementation.
Prerequisites: permission of the graduate program director
MGMT 821 International Strategic Management (3 Credit Hours)
This course deals with various strategic options available to businesses operating in an international environment.  It explores the literature and case materials on multinational companies and the theories and concepts relevant to the analysis of international strategic decisions.
Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor
MGMT 830 Strategic Human Resource Management (3 Credit Hours)
The course examines strategic issues in human resource management.  The course will examine how strategies and policies in areas such as recruitment, selection, training, career development, performance management and international human resource management influence firm performance.  Other topics of current research may also be included.
MGMT 835 Organization Theory (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines theories and empirical research on organizations and their environment.  Topics would include organization design, structure, decision making, change and adaptation.  Other topics of current research may also be included.
MGMT 836 Corporate Strategy Seminar (3 Credit Hours)
This course introduces strategic management students to the different theories, concepts, and phenomena in the field of corporate strategy.
MGMT 837 Business Strategy Seminar (3 Credit Hours)
This course introduces a variety of explanations for organizational competitive advantage as the ultimate outcome of business strategy.   This course includes reading assignments, discussions and student presentations directed to developing novel research ideas.
MGMT 838 Strategic Entrepreneurship Seminar (3 Credit Hours)
This doctoral seminar will expose students to the theory and research behind new business creation and corporate entrepreneurship and it will prepare students to do rigorous and relevant research in this particular topic.
Prerequisites: MGMT 835
MGMT 890 Advanced Topics in Strategy (3 Credit Hours)
This course critically evaluates the classical debates and viewpoints within strategic management research.  In addition the course would cover the emerging theoretical and methodological areas in strategic management research.  Finally, the course would review in depth the research on contemporary issues in strategy.  The objective of the course is to enable students to become independent scholars in the area of strategic management.
Prerequisites: MGMT 840 and MGMT 842
MGMT 891 Strategic Entrepreneurship Seminar (3 Credit Hours)
This doctoral seminar will expose students to the theory and research behind strategic entrepreneurship and prepare them to do rigorous and relevant research in this field of study.
Prerequisites: MGMT 835
MGMT 896 Selected Topics in Management (1-3 Credit Hours)
Advanced study in selected topics in management planning, strategy and policy under the direction of one or more faculty in the Management Department.
Prerequisites: MGMT 840
MGMT 899 Dissertation (1-9 Credit Hours)
Ph.D.-level research and writing of dissertation.
MGMT 998 Master's Graduate Credit (1 Credit Hour)
This course is a pass/fail course for master's students in their final semester. It may be taken to fulfill the registration requirement necessary for graduation.  All master's students are required to be registered for at least one graduate credit hour in the semester of their graduation.
Search catalog
