Customer Analytics and Strategy Collaboratory
Yuping Liu-Thompkins, Director
The Customer Analytics and Strategy Collaboratory (CASC) at the Strome College of Business aims to bridge businesses and the academia for collaborative inquiry and educational endeavors on turning customer data into actionable marketing strategy through advanced analytics.
Dragas Center for Economic Analysis and Policy
Robert McNab, Director
The primary objectives of the center are to conduct research and develop a knowledge base relating to regional issues concerning Hampton Roads. In addition, via its annual State of the Region report, the center provides a forum for analysis and discussions of vital issues relating to the region and its cities.
E. V. Williams Center for Real Estate
Simon Stevenson, Director
The mission of the E.V. Williams Center for Real Estate is to connect the multi-disciplinary analyses, innovative curriculum and research underway at Old Dominion University with students, industry and the public sector interested and engaged in the real estate and economic development communities. By hosting topical seminars on key development issues and working closely with real estate and economic development professionals, the E.V. Williams Center builds relationships throughout the community, to facilitate research, growth and development. The E.V. Williams Center publishes annual real estate market reviews on the office, industrial, retail, single family and multi-family real estate markets and sponsors the Hampton Roads Real Estate Market Review and Forecast.
Insurance & Financial Services Center
Michael McShane, Director
The Insurance and Financial Services Center supports undergraduate and graduate curricula in the disciplines of professional financial planning and risk and insurance. In addition, it provides for active involvement with the Eastern Virginia financial services community as a placement, research, consultative, and resource agency. The center further supports educational programs and seminars for the profession including a professional development program for practitioners that leads to the designation of Professional Financial Planner (PFP).
Jensen Communications Lab
The lab, made possible through a gift from George '70 and Linda '72 Jensen, provides an immersive, technology-rich laboratory and classroom setting for students to learn and develop tools to empower them in the workplace. This lab contains the latest communication technology so that students, no matter their field of business, can be successful.
Lumsden Trading Room & Research Lab
Andrew Cohen, Lab Manager
The students who take advantaqe of the resources in the Gregory A. Lumsden Trading Room and Research Lab will have an appealing skill to put on their resume. They can even use the lab to earn a Bloomberg Essentials Certificate or prepare for and take the Bloomberg Aptitude Test.
Maritime, Ports, & Logistics Management Institute
Ricardo Ungo, Director
The institute provides a focal point for educational services and research programming that is responsive to the port and shipping-related needs of Hampton Roads, Virginia, and other port and shipping-related facilities in the world. Serving as a positive link with port-related business and public administration communities, the institute provides a catalyst for the delivery of education, training, research, and service programs in both the credit and non-credit arenas. The Maritime Institute also serves as a hub for applied education, training and research related to the development and management of transportation and storage systems, with ports serving as centers of internationally complex activities. Courses are available at the undergraduate and graduate levels and are listed in this Catalog and the Graduate Catalog. Professional, executive-level seminars, workshops, and short courses will also be offered.
Thurmond Negotiations Lab
Contact Aaron Arndt for more information.
The Thurmond Negotiations Lab was created from the generous donation of Dick Thurmond. A core mission of the Thurmond Negotiations Lab is to provide access to negotiation skills education in underserved Hampton Roads communities. His vision is to empower women through negotiations and we have made his vision central to our core mission.
Search catalog
