University General Education Requirements
University General Education Requirements
All students receiving baccalaureate degrees from Old Dominion University shall complete the University’s General Education Program. At the lower division (freshman and sophomore), the program’s designed courses develop the Skills (Goals 1-2 below) needed for later study and the Ways of Knowing (Goals 3-4) needed to understand the various approaches to knowledge at work in the University. At the upper division (junior and senior), Options B, C, and D provide a multidisciplinary experience to broaden the student’s ability to apply the Skills and Ways of Knowing at a more advanced level.
General Education and Prior Learning Assessment
All lower-level requirements within this program may be met by credit awarded to students who are able to demonstrate appropriate prior learning that fulfills the objectives of the particular Skills and Ways of Knowing requirements. Though not all learning and experiences are worthy of being recognized with the reward of academic credit, the principle that supports the policy is that many valid learning experiences worthy of such credit do take place outside of the traditional classroom setting. For procedures to meet General Education Requirements in this manner, please consult the section of this Catalog on Prior Learning Assessment Credit Options at the Undergraduate Level and visit the Prior Learning Assessment web site at https://www.odu.edu/academics/academic-records/evaluation-of-credit/prior-learning .
General Education Philosophy
The General Education program at Old Dominion University represents the common core of the baccalaureate degree. It prepares students for pursuing a major, for broadening their views of life, and for understanding an increasingly global and diverse world. It provides students with the basic skills and intellectual perspectives to engage in the search for knowledge. The General Education program develops analytical and critical thinking skills and the ability to make reasoned judgments. Students will also discover that learning is a complex, multifaceted, and lifelong endeavor.
General Education Goals and Objectives
The Goals (1-5) and particular objectives of General Education are as follows:
Develop and demonstrate effective uses of language.
Develop written communication skills.
Develop ability to use a foreign language and learn about another culture.
Develop written communication skills in the major at the upper-division level.
Develop mathematical and information literacy.
Develop basic mathematical competence.
Develop an understanding of the natural sciences and technology and their contributions to human culture.
Understand the concepts and methods of the natural sciences.
Understand the nature of technology and its impacts on society and the environment.
Develop an understanding of human behavior, society and culture, with specific attention to technology, international perspectives and issues related to ethnicity, race and gender.
Develop an understanding of history and the ability to think critically about the past.
Think critically about beliefs, values, and moral issues that have shaped human society.
Critically analyze the fine and performing arts and their contribution to culture.
Critically analyze literature and its contribution to culture.
Develop an understanding of behavioral, political, economic, and social systems.
Integrate knowledge at the advanced level. Option A. Complete a minor, second major or second degree. Option B. Complete an interdisciplinary minor. Option C. Complete an approved certification program such as teaching licensure. Option D: Complete upper-division course work from another college or component (majors in the College of Arts and Letters may select from the Arts and Humanities component or the Social Sciences component depending on the major) outside of and not required by the major.
Students may not use courses in the discipline of their declared major to fulfill University General Education Requirements in the following Ways of Knowing areas: Human Behavior, Human Creativity and the Nature of Science.
Since the Skills and Ways of Knowing are needed for major courses and Upper-Division General Education, students should meet those requirements during their freshman and sophomore years.
Transfer Policies for General Education Requirements
Students who have received any of the following associate degrees from Richard Bland College or the Virginia Community College System have met all lower-division General Education requirements, except those specified as major or college requirements and requirements for completion of the undergraduate writing program:  Associate of Arts (AA), Associate of Science (AS) with any major other than general studies (see the next paragraph for additional information), and Associate of Arts and Sciences (AA and S), including the AA & S with a major in general studies.
Effective Fall 2010, the AS degrees in general studies that are offered by those institutions whose general studies degrees are recognized as transfer degrees by the State Council of Higher Education for Virginia will also be guaranteed acceptance as meeting lower-division General Education Requirements. AS degrees in general studies received from those institutions whose general studies degrees are not recognized by the State Council of Higher Education for Virginia will be examined individually to determine whether the degrees are university parallel programs and eligible for lower-division General Education requirement waivers.
Students who have earned an Associate of Applied Science (AAS) degree from the Virginia Community College System that includes the required General Education courses have met all lower-division General Education requirements except those specified as major or college requirements and the requirements for completion of the undergraduate writing program. College-parallel programs at other community colleges or systems (consistent with the requirements of degrees from the Virginia Community College System) are also accepted as meeting lower-division General Education requirements and are reviewed by the Office of Undergraduate Admissions. Transfer students should be aware that even though University lower-division General Education Requirements may have been met, college, school and/or departmental requirements must still be met. Students must earn a grade of C (2.0) or better in order to receive the credit hours associated with classes taken at other regionally accredited institutions.
Policies governing the transfer of General Education Requirements can be found in the Admissions section of this catalog. See the transfer student website for the complete listing of articulation agreements at: https://www.odu.edu/transfer/transfer-pathways .
Lower-Division Requirements (freshman and sophomore years)
I. Skills
Completion of course work in the skills areas ensures that all students possess the basic tools with which to pursue their major interests.
A. Written Communication
Students are advised to consult the department of their major program and the Undergraduate Writing Program Requirements section of this catalog.
Course List
