Total Credit Hours
60
With advisor approval, two of these courses may be substituted with  courses outside of the educational leadership program to allow students  to form cognate areas.
Additional Requirements
Continuance
Students must meet all department, college, and university policy requirements for continuation in their academic program. See department policy above.
Exit
In order to graduate from the program, students must successfully complete all degree requirements including all coursework, candidacy requirements, and the dissertation.
Continuance Policy and Procedures for the Educational Leadership Program
The following policy has been established for continuance in Educational Leadership Program.
At the end of each semester – fall, spring, and summer – the graduate program directors (GPD) will review student records.  As per university policy, students who do not maintain an overall GPA of at least 3.0 in their ELS program will be placed on probation.  Students placed on probation have one semester to bring their overall GPA back to a minimum of 3.0.  A student may be placed on probation only one time in their EFL program and will not be eligible for a second probationary period.  Should a student’s GPA fall below 3.0 twice, he/she will be dismissed from the program.
Students who receive a grade of F in any ELS required or elective program course or who receive a final grade of lower than B- in more than one class in their program will be dismissed from their program by the Graduate Program Director and Department Chair.  A failing grade in dissertation credits for one semester places the student in warning status and does not automatically dismiss the student from the program.  However, two failing grades in dissertation credits will result in dismissal from the program.  Students may follow the Grade Appeal Procedure in the ODU Graduate Catalog.  In the event a grade is appealed such that the student comes into compliance with the EFL Continuance Policy, he/she will be reinstated.  In accord with University policy, ODU email is considered official communication.
Advancement to Candidacy Policy for all EFL Programs
In the Department of Educational Foundations and Leadership, advancement to candidacy is a formal step that occurs after the student 1) completes formal coursework, 2) passes the PhD written and oral candidacy examinations, and 3) has an approved dissertation topic.
Search catalog
