Graduate Courses
HNRS 100 Honors General Education Abroad (Humanities) (3 Credit Hours)
Taught in an international setting, special honors sections of general education courses meeting one of the following lower-division general education requirements:  oral communication, information literacy, language and culture, literature, human creativity, human behavior, interpreting the past, the impact of technology, or philosophy and ethics.
Prerequisites: A passing score on the Writing Success Placement Tool (WSPT) and permission of the instructor
HNRS 101 Honors General Education Abroad (Sciences) (3-4 Credit Hours)
Taught in an international setting, special honors sections of general education courses meeting one of the following lower-division general education requirements: mathematical skills, information literacy, the nature of science, and the impact of technology.
Prerequisites: A passing score on the Writing Success Placement Tool (WSPT)
HNRS 109 Engineering Student Success (3 Credit Hours)
For Perry Honors College students, the course introduces students to the engineering profession. The course covers math skills with engineering applications, as well as study skills and strategies for a successful transition into college. An application-oriented, hands-on approach to reinforce math topics used in core engineering courses will be used in the course. The course prepares prospective engineering majors for ENGN 110. This course does not count towards Batten College of Engineering & Technology graduation credit.
Prerequisites: Honors College approval and MATH 102M or MATH 103M
HNRS 200 Peer Education and Leadership (3 Credit Hours)
This course prepares students for work as peer mentors and tutors.  Students will develop skills in information literacy and research as they learn how to create and implement individualized student success/academic plans for themselves and others.
HNRS 201 Monarch Think Tank I (3 Credit Hours)
The Monarch Think Tank draws students from all disciplines to collaborate with each other, faculty and community members as they design project-based solutions to pertinent social issues.  Think Tank topics vary each year.  Guided by distinguished faculty, students analyze their topic through in-depth classroom and field research, readings and off-campus trips.
HNRS 226 Undergraduate Research Apprenticeship (1-3 Credit Hours)
The Research Apprenticeship offers students the opportunity to develop and acquire skills in research and information literacy through active involvement in ongoing research programs or in research projects under the supervision of a faculty mentor. Experiences may include but are not limited to gathering and analyzing information to develop proposals, survey construction, stakeholder identification, stimulus development, quantitative and qualitative data collection, statistical analysis, writing reports, and presenting results. Available research projects/programs will vary each semester. Interested students should consult with the Honors College Dean and visit the Honors College website for more information about research apprenticeship opportunities: http://www.odu.edu/ao/honors.
Prerequisites: approval of Honors College Dean
HNRS 250G Media and Info Literacy in the Google Age (3 Credit Hours)
This information literacy course focuses on communication technology and our sources for information, including digital, print, and non-print sources.  By focusing on the credibility control, privacy, and ownership of information, students will learn to identify an information need, then locate, evaluate, and use resources effectively and responsibly.  The course will enhance students' knowledge, evaluation, and use of scholarly and popular media material in the 21st century so that they might become well-informed critical thinkers, professionals, and citizens.
HNRS 300 Great Book Seminar (1 Credit Hour)
A 'Great Book' Seminar is a small (5-10 student), discussion-based class focused on a book that makes a difference, a work that has changed and influenced the ways people live and continue to think about themselves, others, and the world.  Led by a faculty mentor, students will develop their information literacy by interpreting, communicating, problem-solving, and charitably listening to a variety of viewpoints.  Faculty and student mentors will select the book read in this course.
Prerequisites: Must be a student in the Perry Honors College
HNRS 301 Monarch Think Tank II (3 Credit Hours)
The Monarch Think Tank draws students from all disciplines to collaborate with each other, faculty and community members as they design project-based solutions to pertinent social issues.  Think Tank topics vary each year.  Guided by distinguished faculty, students analyze their topic through in-depth classroom and field research, readings and off-campus trips.
Prerequisites: ENGL 211C or equivalent
HNRS 326 Undergraduate Research Apprenticeship II (3 Credit Hours)
Research apprenticeship with a faculty member, assisting a faculty member in the development and execution of research. May be repeated to 9 credit hours maximum.
Prerequisites: Honors College, permission of the instructor and 3.0 cumulative grade point average
HNRS 368 Honors Internship (3 Credit Hours)
Internship credit is available for Perry Honors College students who have secured an internship outside of their field of study or students that are not offered internship credit through their department.
Prerequisites: Must be a Perry Honors College Student
HNRS 386T Evolution of Modern Science (3 Credit Hours)
A section of SCI 302T / HIST 386T for Perry Honors College students, this course outlines the history of science from Aristotle to the present. Scientific progress has always been coupled with human progress and subject to the politics and culture of the times. Scientists, in most instances, have been in the mainstream of society. But, because of their curiosity and innovation, scientists have often clashed with the prevailing culture.
Prerequisites: HIST 100H , HIST 101H , HIST 102H , HIST 103H , HIST 104H , HIST 105H , HIST 126H , or HIST 127H
HNRS 387 Honors Civic Learning Project (1 Credit Hour)
Students volunteer for 45 hours of work, keep a work experience journal reflecting on their day-to-day experiences as a volunteer, and write a short paper detailing how the experience helped them to identify, revise and accomplish future learning and career goals.
Prerequisites: junior standing in the Honors College
HNRS 389 McNair Summer Research Institute (3 Credit Hours)
This research course is open only to TRiO McNair Scholars. During this 8-week course, students will acquire basic skills in research to include understanding research ethics, developing technical writing skills, and effectively disseminating their research. Students will demonstrate an understanding of research methodology, prepare a written literature review, construct their research proposal, and perform statistical analyses. Course instructors, faculty mentors, and the graduate assistant serving as the research and writing coach will offer individualized support to students in the completion of their research projects.
Prerequisites: junior standing in the Honors College
HNRS 390 McNair Senior Seminar (1 Credit Hour)
This course is open only to TRiO McNair Scholars. The purpose of this course is to prepare students for applying for admission into graduate programs and provide critical strategies for thriving at the graduate level and as a professional. Students will receive support in identifying the essential components of a graduate school application and establishing a clear understanding of how to prepare and succeed as a graduate student.
Prerequisites: Junior standing in the Honors College
HNRS 395 Honors Topics (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics. Honors Topics courses are designed to help students to make connections between academic knowledge and relevant experience, observe connections across disciplines, as well as adapt/apply skills, abilities, theories or methodologies gained in one situation to meet the needs of new situations. These courses are open to non-honors students with at least a 3.25 cumulative GPA. Courses will appear in the course schedule, and will be more fully described in information distributed to all academic advisors.
Prerequisites: Junior standing and permission of the instructor
HNRS 396 Honors Topics (Study Abroad) (1-4 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics examined in an international setting. Honors Topics Abroad courses are designed to help students gain new perspectives on their fields of study, develop intercultural competencies and communication skills, and engage with situations and questions that challenge their own assumptions/values. These courses are open to non-honors students with a cumulative GPA of at least 3.25. Courses will appear in the course schedule, and will be more fully described in information distributed to all academic advisors.
Prerequisites: Junior standing and permission of the instructor
HNRS 400 Honors ePortfolio (1 Credit Hour)
Recommended for juniors and seniors in the Perry Honors College, this course explores ways to showcase and reflect on the students' curricular and extracurricular honor education--showing the progression of their learning, experiences, and accomplishments that leads to where they want to go in life.  This is a guided opportunity to assist students in fulfilling their honors ePortfolio requirement and to develop their social media profiles.
Prerequisites: must be a Perry Honors College student
HNRS 401/501 Social Entrepreneurship (3 Credit Hours)
This class draws students from all disciplines to collaborate with each other, faculty, and community members as they co-design project-based solutions to pertinent social issues. Topics related to social entrepreneurship vary each year. Guided by distinguished faculty, students analyze their topic through in-depth classroom and field research, readings, and off-campus trips.
Prerequisites: ENGL 211C or equivalent
HNRS 402 Language Directed Study (3 Credit Hours)
Under the supervision of a faculty mentor, students work independently using self-instructional materials. The focus is on grammar, reading or writing. Language Directed Study does not satisfy general education, major or college language requirements.  Permission of the Honors College required.
Prerequisites: Honors College Students Only; Permission of Honors College required
HNRS 490 Translation Project (3 Credit Hours)
Honors College students will work in teams and individually to prepare sample translations for a variety of target audiences, markets, or clients. Individual project content will be varied:  some projects may focus on literary translation, while others with adapting websites, software, video games, and other products into forms that meet local expectations for content. The overarching goal is for students to develop tools for thinking about the centrality of translation across academic disciplines and realms of human experience.  An intermediate or advanced level of fluency in a language other than English is recommended to take this course.
Prerequisites: Perry Honors College student
HNRS 497 Honors Independent Study (1-3 Credit Hours)
Offered upon request each semester.  This course is an opportunity for students to engage in directed readings and/or research in a topic with which they are familiar.
Prerequisites: open to juniors and seniors in the Honors College
HNRS 498 Honors Independent Study (1-3 Credit Hours)
Offered upon request each semester.  This course is an opportunity for students to engage in directed readings and/or research in a topic with which they are familiar.
Prerequisites: open to juniors and seniors in the Honors College
HNRS 499 Senior Honors Thesis (3 Credit Hours)
Each student will undertake a research experience under the supervision of a faculty member.  A research proposal and research report are required.
Prerequisites: permission of the Honors College Dean, 3.25 cumulative GPA
HNRS 501 Social Entrepreneurship (3 Credit Hours)
The class draws students from all disciplines to collaborate with each other, faculty and community members as they co-design project-based solutions to pertinent social issues. Topics related to social entrepreneurship vary each year. Guided by distinguished faculty, students analyze their topic through in-depth classroom and field research, readings and off-campus trips.
Search catalog
