Graduate Courses
HMS 200S Personal Health and Wellness (3 Credit Hours)
This course will take a holistic approach to discuss and apply the dimensions of wellness as related to personal health. Dimensions of wellness covered will include physical, emotional, social, financial, intellectual, environmental, spiritual, and occupational. Students will evaluate how lifestyle, environment, and heredity impact each dimension of wellness. Emphasis will be placed on identifying how health behaviors impact each dimension of wellness and overall quality of life. In addition, the course will allow students to explore their own personal health and learn how to develop and implement behavioral and environmental strategies to improve their wellness.
HMS 697 Independent Study (1-3 Credit Hours)
Investigations in health, physical education, recreation, and sport.  Problems approved in advance are investigated under the supervision of the faculty advisor.
HMS 698 Thesis (3-6 Credit Hours)
3-6 credits.
Prerequisites: permission of the advisor and committee
HMS 699 Thesis (3-6 Credit Hours)
3-6 credits.
Prerequisites: permission of the advisor and committee
HMS 795 Topics in Human Movement Sciences (1-3 Credit Hours)
Selected topic courses in Human Movement Sciences.
Prerequisites: Instructor approval
HMS 815 Introduction to Doctoral Study Seminar (3 Credit Hours)
This course explores current issues and trends in all aspects of human movement science and relates theory to practice.
HMS 816 Research Experience I (3 Credit Hours)
Determination of a research project through the review of literature. Course encompasses formulation of a topic along with the design of a research study.
HMS 817 Research Experience II (3 Credit Hours)
Supervised research implementation, data collection, and project completion of specific topic within curriculum and instruction or applied kinesiology concepts.
HMS 879 Research Residency (3 Credit Hours)
Students will work in consultation with their advisors to conduct a study related to human movement sciences as part of their research residency that will be submitted for presentation at a nationally refereed conference and/or to a refereed journal.
Prerequisites: To be taken after 9 hours of research methods and 18 hours of coursework, and prior to the comprehensive exams (or approval of advisor)
HMS 890 Doctoral Studies Seminar (3 Credit Hours)
Students will be introduced to expectations of conducting research, explore concepts associated with becoming a faculty member or practitioner with an earned doctorate, and become familiar with campus resources. Students will learn and apply concepts related to scientific writing.  This course will include extensive reading of research articles, grant applications, and other scholarly work. Also, this course will investigate the need for professional development.  This will include familiarizing oneself with appropriate professional organizations, exploring the benefits and challenges of collaboration, interviewing and preparing for job placements, and preparing a curricular vitae and teaching philosophy.
HMS 895 Topics in Human Movement Sciences (1-3 Credit Hours)
Selected topic courses in Human Movement Sciences.
HMS 897 Independent Study in Human Movement Sciences (3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study under the direction of a faculty member on a topic in the Human Movement Sciences.
HMS 898 Independent Research in Human Movement Sciences (1-9 Credit Hours)
Independent research project under the direction of a faculty member that will expose students to a broad range of research topics and research environments in the human movement sciences.
HMS 899 Dissertation (1-12 Credit Hours)
Work on pre-selected dissertation topic under the direction of dissertation chair.
Prerequisites: permission of dissertation committee chair
HMS 998 Master's Graduate Credit (1 Credit Hour)
This course is a pass/fall course for master's students in their final semester. It may be taken to fulfill the registration requirement necessary for graduation. All master's students are required to be registered for at least one graduate credit hour in the semester of graduation.
HMS 999 Doctoral Graduate Credit (1 Credit Hour)
This course is a pass/fail course doctoral students may take to maintain active status after successfully passing the candidacy examination.  All doctoral students are required to be registered for at least one graduate credit hour every semester until their graduation.
Search catalog
