Graduate Courses
MKTG 200R Professional Interactions and Negotiations (3 Credit Hours)
This class introduces and develops fundamental communication skills used in formal career settings. Students will learn and practice giving persuasive speeches, networking at formal career events, interviewing for jobs, and negotiating.
MKTG 311 Marketing Principles and Problems (3 Credit Hours)
The design, distribution, pricing, and promotion of goods, services, people, places, and causes.  Course examines both national and international markets and includes an introduction to the legal and ethical constraints on marketing.
Prerequisites: A declared major in the University or an intended major in the Strome College of Business or permission of the Dean's Office of the Strome College, AND Junior Standing
MKTG 316 Professional Selling (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines professional selling as the link between the firm and the customer. The sales force has a key role in relationship management. As such, this class will emphasize selling skills that help to maintain positive long-term customer relationships. Topics will include prospecting for new clients, adaptive communication skills, addressing customer concerns, closing sales, following up with customers, understanding different types of sales positions and skills, and ethics in professional selling.
Prerequisites: C or better in ENGL 110C or ENGL 126C
MKTG 367 Cooperative Education (1-3 Credit Hours)
May be repeated for credit.  Available for pass/fail grading only.  Student participation for credit based on the academic relevance of the work experience, criteria and evaluative procedures as formally determined by the department and Career Development Services prior to the semester in which the work experience is to take place.
Prerequisites: C or better in MKTG 311 (or equivalent) and approval by the instructor and Career Development Services in accordance with the policy for granting credit for Cooperative Education programs
MKTG 368 Marketing Internship (1-3 Credit Hours)
Student completes a relevant marketing experience in the marketplace after submitting a job description, learning objectives, and task accomplishments.
Prerequisites: C or better in MKTG 311 (or equivalent) and approval of instructor
MKTG 369 Practicum (1-3 Credit Hours)
Practicum experience in marketing.
Prerequisites: C or better in MKTG 311 (or equivalent) and approval of instructor
MKTG 402 Consumer Behavior (3 Credit Hours)
The effects of personality, motivation, perception, learning, attitudes, cultural and social influence and lifestyle on buying situations and how knowledge of these factors enables the marketer to better meet the needs of the marketplace.
Prerequisites: C or better in MKTG 311 (or equivalent), and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
MKTG 403 Advertising Strategy (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of those advertising and promotional strategies directed toward the consumers of goods and services with emphasis on planning and executing an effective campaign to achieve meaningful goals.
Prerequisites: C or better in MKTG 311 (or equivalent), and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
MKTG 404 Sales Management (3 Credit Hours)
Material focuses on quantitative and qualitative goal setting; management, control and evaluation of the sales program; selecting, training, motivating, and evaluating the sales force.
Prerequisites: C or better in MKTG 311 (or equivalent) and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office in the Strome College of Business
MKTG 405 The Art of Influence and Persuasion (3 Credit Hours)
This course is an introductory course on techniques and concepts on how to influence in a variety of business settings. Influence and persuasion is used daily in businesses throughout the world. Effective influence and persuasion can be the determining factor in successful business engagements. This course will develop students' influence and persuasion skills through oral and written communications. It will cover the underlying psychological mechanism of persuasion, the entire influence and persuasion process, influencing and persuading individuals as well as organizations in a business setting, and the ethical issues in influence and persuasion.
Prerequisites: C or better in MKTG 311 (or equivalent), and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office of the Strome College of Business or permission of the instructor
MKTG 406 Public Relations (3 Credit Hours)
For non-business as well as business majors.  Development and application of a philosophy of business expressed in governmental, corporate, social or educational institutions in furthering their public image.
Prerequisites: C or better in MKTG 311 (or equivalent), and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
MKTG 407 Marketing Research (3 Credit Hours)
Emphasis is given to the development of a strong theoretical base in the systematic selection, collection, and interpretation of marketing information leading to sound policies and strategies.  Students are required to carry out a group project involving a marketing problem (or opportunity) for a company or involving a real market situation.  The project will satisfy the practicum experience requirement of the College (CAP).  (qualifies as a CAP experience)
Prerequisites: BNAL 306 and MKTG 402 , a grade of C or better in MKTG 311 and a declared major in the University or  permission of the Dean's Office
MKTG 411 Multi-National Marketing (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of the operational and cross-cultural aspects of international marketing, including the nature of competition, developmental marketing structures and channels, price and credit policies, promotional methods, trade barriers, and international arrangements.
Prerequisites: C or better in MKTG 311 (or equivalent), and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
MKTG 412 Retail Marketing (3 Credit Hours)
This course will introduce students to a broad range of topics within the field of retailing: retailing strategy, targeting of customers, gathering of information, identifying and understanding customers, choosing a store location, managing a retail business, merchandise management and planning, and communication with the customer.  The approach will combine both theory and practical application.
Prerequisites: C or better in MKTG 311 (or equivalent), and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
MKTG 414 Ethics and Social Issues in Administration (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of the ethical and social problems confronting administrators and personnel in dealing with discrimination in employment practices, credit and financing, advertising, warranties and guarantees, packaging and labeling, and environmental problems.
Prerequisites: C or better in MKTG 311 (or equivalent), and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
MKTG 417 Advanced Professional Selling (3 Credit Hours)
This course will reinforce and strengthen the sales skills learned in MKTG 316 . Personal selling is a key skill for orchestrating the exchange of goods, services, ideas, and resources between organizations (business-to-business, B2B) and consumers (B2C). This course is not just for 'salespeople' — individuals involved in personal selling who operate under a variety of job titles (e.g., business development manager, sales representative, market development manager, account executive, relationship manager, and key account manager). This course will focus on skills and knowledge applicable to complex selling situations.
Prerequisites: C or better in MKTG 311 (or equivalent) and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office in the Strome College of Business
MKTG 428 Marketing of Services (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the applications of the conceptual framework of marketing within the service business context.  The course will focus on the characteristics of the service environment as well as important considerations in the service marketing mix.
Prerequisites: C or better in MKTG 311 (or equivalent), and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
MKTG 450 Marketing on the Internet (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the use of the Internet as a unique channel for marketing to consumers and businesses.  It focuses on Internet marketing strategies, online strategic implementation, and the integration between companies' online and offline marketing efforts.
Prerequisites: C or better in MKTG 311 (or equivalent), and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
MKTG 455 Social Media Marketing (3 Credit Hours)
This course will introduce students to the significance of today's social media marketing tools, and how to implement and evaluate these tools for a business. The students will learn how to create a social media plan with multiple creative social media strategies. The course will also highlight best practices in social media marketing by forward thinking and innovative companies and organizations.
Prerequisites: C or better in MKTG 311 (or equivalent), and a declared major in the University, or permission of the instructor
MKTG 460 Web Analytics (3 Credit Hours)
This course will introduce students to web analytic tools and methods and demonstrate how businesses can use web analytics to derive customer insight and improve marketing strategy. It will cover topics such as web traffic analysis, social media data mining, search and keyword analysis, social network analysis, and proactive analytics using testing and experimentation.
Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in MKTG 311 , and a declared major in the University, or permission of the instructor
MKTG 475 Marketing Analytics (3 Credit Hours)
Marketing analytics comprises the processes and technologies that enable managers to have a better understanding of the market, i.e., the performance of marketing programs, the need of the customers, and the forecast of sales. In other words, it supports managers' decision making using evidence and insights from available data. This course will give students the tools and techniques to effectively use data to evaluate past marketing programs, boost the present marketing initiatives, and predict future business and customer performance.
Prerequisites: C or better in MKTG 311 and C or better in BNAL 306 , a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office of the Strome College of Business, or permission of the instructor
MKTG 490 Marketing Policy and Strategy (3 Credit Hours)
A capstone course covering the marketing function and its relationship to the total business organization and its environment.  Emphasis is placed upon the design of total marketing systems, strategies, and the design and production of new products and services.
Prerequisites: marketing major, senior standing, MKTG 402 , MKTG 407 , plus two additional marketing courses or permission of instructor
MKTG 496 Selected Topics in Marketing (1-3 Credit Hours)
Designed to provide advanced students in marketing an opportunity to study, independently or in small groups, selected areas of marketing under the guidance of a faculty member.
Prerequisites: senior standing and permission of instructor
MKTG 603 Marketing Management (3 Credit Hours)
Fundamentals of marketing (including market research, product design, distribution, pricing and promotion of goods, services, people, places and ideas) with case analyses to clarify applications.
MKTG 608 Fundamentals of Contemporary Marketing (2 Credit Hours)
This course will discuss fundamental concepts of marketing including product design, distribution, pricing and promotion of goods, marketing of services, and market research.  Other contemporary issues in marketing, such as brand equity and customer relationship management, will also be discussed.  Selected case analyses will be used to highlight applications.
Prerequisites: Admission to the MBA Program and MBA 621 or MBA 600 , MBA 601, MBA 602, MBA 603 and MBA 604
MKTG 617 Marketing Strategy (2 Credit Hours)
This course will build on the fundamentals developed in MKTG 608 .  It will focus on developing skills to formulate and implement marketing strategies for brands and companies.  Marketing mix strategies, segmentation, targeting, and positioning strategies, as well as competitive strategies and contemporary issues in marketing strategy will be discussed.  Decision-making skills will be enhanced using case analyses in addition to readings and discussions.
Prerequisites: Admission to the MBA Program and MKTG 608
MKTG 621 Managerial Problems in Marketing Strategy (3 Credit Hours)
Lecture, case analysis and discussion of marketing from the business executive's viewpoint. Recent developments in marketing and related disciplines and their application in management. Readings, case analysis, discussion.
Prerequisites: MKTG 603 or MKTG 608 or instructor permission
MKTG 625 Marketing Research Methods and Analysis (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the various methods of marketing research design, while covering experimental methods, sampling procedures, measurement techniques, and other methodological problems. The student is introduced to data analysis and statistical modeling programs.
Prerequisites: MKTG 603 or MKTG 608 and BNAL 606 or instructor permission
MKTG 628 Marketing of Services (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the application of marketing principles and techniques to service organizations. Topics covered include the nature of services, distribution, and promotion considerations. Class discussion revolves around a textbook, cases, and outside readings. Students take part in a major group project which will involve the development of a marketing plan for a service organization.
Prerequisites: MKTG 603 or MKTG 608 or instructor permission
MKTG 630 Ethics and Marketing Decision-Making (3 Credit Hours)
Marketers, probably more than other professionals, often are faced with decisions involving an ethical issue. This course has the following objectives: 1) to examine the ethical decision-making process of marketing professionals, 2) to examine the major ethical issues confronting marketers, 3) to provide frameworks to help resolve the ethical dimensions of marketing decisions, and 4) to provide experience in making marketing decisions that involve ethical dilemmas through the use of case studies.
Prerequisites: MKTG 603 or MKTG 608 or instructor permission
MKTG 640 Global Marketing Management (3 Credit Hours)
Examines the global environment of business and its potential effects on marketing principles and practices. The course will include the effect of culture on marketing mix strategies.
Prerequisites: MKTG 603 or MKTG 608 or instructor permission
MKTG 650 Marketing on the Internet (3 Credit Hours)
Course examines the application of marketing theories to the internet. Topics include internet marketing strategy, electronic commerce, web page development, and the impact of the internet in the international marketplace.
Prerequisites: MKTG 603 or MKTG 608 or instructor permission
MKTG 660 Advertising and Integrated Marketing Communications (3 Credit Hours)
Introduces students to the concepts of integrated marketing communications (IMC). Students will learn how to formulate a firm's marketing communication strategy from an integrated perspective, become familiar with the various tools used in IMC programs, and develop necessary skills to develop an IMC plan for a business. Topics covered in the course include the role of the IMC in the marketing process, the IMC plan development process, the components of IMC media planning and budgeting for IMC, creative strategies, and assessment of the effectiveness of an IMC campaign.
Prerequisites: MKTG 603 or MKTG 608 or instructor permission
MKTG 668 Marketing Internship (1-3 Credit Hours)
Internship in the field of marketing, applying theories, concepts, and marketing tools in a business environment.
Prerequisites: MKTG 603 or MKTG 608 , graduate standing, and instructor permission
MKTG 696 Selected Topics in Marketing (1-3 Credit Hours)
Study designed for students who have had one or more of the required courses waived, or for students desiring additional work in a marketing area of particular interest.
Prerequisites: permission of the graduate program director
MKTG 801 Seminar in Marketing Theory: History and Current Topics (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on theory development in marketing from the 1940s to the latest publications in marketing journals.  The topics covered include philosophy of science, truth in research, the development of marketing theory and practice, and the current direction in marketing theory and research opportunities.
Prerequisites: MKTG 603
MKTG 802 Seminar in Marketing Concepts and Issues (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the current academic research trends in the different functional areas of the marketing discipline.  Topics covered include promotional theory, pricing theory, distribution theory, product theory, marketing strategy theory, marketing ethics, and multinational marketing.
MKTG 803 Seminar in Consumer Behavior (3 Credit Hours)
The purpose of this course is to provide a comprehensive and up-to-date understanding of the major research work carried out in consumer behavior.  It examines major psychological constructs and phenomena related to consumer behavior and introduces students to various research approaches to consumer behavior issues.
Prerequisites: MKTG 603
MKTG 813 Fundamentals of Survey Research (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on the fundamental issues associated with survey research as found in the marketing/management disciplines.  The topics covered are experimental and quasi-experimental designs, analysis of data from experimental designs, questionnaire design and refinement, and scale development.
Prerequisites: BNAL 711 /BNAL 811
MKTG 814 Seminar in Advanced Marketing Methodology (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the design, analysis, and implementation of marketing research methods along with advanced statistical techniques.  This is an integrative capstone course for the marketing research doctoral sequence of courses.  The focus is on ensuring that the marketing academic understands all aspects of data analysis and design issues.
Prerequisites: BNAL 811, BNAL 812 and MKTG 813
MKTG 826 Seminar in International Marketing Problems (3 Credit Hours)
An analysis of planning, organization, and control functions of multinational marketing operations and how marketing procedures need to be developed/adapted for effective pursuit of business opportunities in other countries.
Prerequisites: MKTG 603
MKTG 827 Seminar in Marketing Planning and Strategy (3 Credit Hours)
Focus on contemporary marketing practice and provides opportunity to acquire a comprehensive understanding of the marketing planning process and the need for development of sound marketing strategy.  Marketing goals, strategies, and tactics are examined in detail.
Prerequisites: MKTG 603
MKTG 895 Selected Topics in Marketing (3 Credit Hours)
Designed to provide the advanced student with an opportunity to study independently or in small groups and investigate specific topics of current interest in the field of marketing.
Prerequisites: Ph.D. standing and permission of the chair and coordinator
MKTG 899 Dissertation Research (1-12 Credit Hours)
1-12 credits per semester with limitation of 24 credits.
Prerequisites: advanced standing in Ph.D. program
MKTG 998 Master's Graduate Credit (1 Credit Hour)
This course is a pass/fail course for master's students in their final semester. It may be taken to fulfill the registration requirement necessary for graduation.  All master's students are required to be registered for at least one graduate credit hour in the semester of their graduation.
Search catalog
