Eileen P. Abrahamsen, Associate Professor Emerita of Communication Disorders & Special Education*
John A. Adam, University Professor Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Mathematics & Statistics
Clifford L. Adams, Professor Emeritus of Physics*
Cephas J. Adkins, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Psychology*
Abdel M. Agami, Professor Emeritus of Accounting
Ali Osman Akan, Professor Emeritus of Civil and Environmental Engineering
Robert Ake, University Professor Emeritus and Associate Professor Emeritus of Chemistry and Biochemistry
W. Gerald Akers, Professor Emeritus of German Language and Literature*
Tami C. Al-Hazza, Associate Professor Emerita of Teaching and Learning
Betty Alexy, Associate Professor Emerita of Nursing
Dwight Allen, Eminent Scholar Emeritus of Educational Reform and Professor Emeritus*
Claire J. Anderson, Associate Professor Emerita of Management
Eric E. Anderson, Associate Professor Emeritus of Economics
Michael C. Andrews, Eminent Scholar Emeritus and Louis I. Jaffe Professor Emeritus of English
Robert Arnett, Associate Professor Emeritus of Communication and Theatre Arts
Robert L. Ash, Eminent Scholar Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering
Steven K. Atiyah, Assistant Professor Emeritus of Mathematics and Statistics*
Larry Atkinson, Eminent Scholar Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Ocean, Earth and Atmospheric Sciences*
Roy E. Aycock, Professor Emeritus of English*
B
Howard W. Baeumler, Associate Professor Emeritus of Mathematics*
Virginia S. Bagley, Associate Professor Emerita of Biological Sciences*
Han P. Bao, Professor Emeritus of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering and Mitsubishi Kasei Professor Emeritus of Engineering Manufacturing
P. Stephen Barna, Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering and Mechanics*
Barbara R. Bartkus, University Professor Emerita and Associate Professor Emerita of Management
William Bartolotta, Associate Professor Emeritus of Music
David R. Basco, Professor Emeritus of Civil and Environmental Engineering
Deborah Bauman, Assistant Dean Emerita of Health Sciences and Associate Professor Emerita of Dental Hygiene
Nancy Topping Bazin, Eminent Scholar Emerita and Professor Emerita of English
Jacob Becher, Associate Professor Emeritus of Physics
William W. Beck, Professor Emeritus of Civil Engineering Technology*
Charles E. Bell, Professor Emeritus of Chemistry and Biochemistry*
W. Herman Bell, Professor Emeritus of French Language and Literature*
Richardean S. Benjamin, Associate Dean Emerita, College of Health Sciences, and Associate Professor Emerita of Nursing
Linda K. Bennington, Clinical Associate Professor Emerita of Nursing
Maurice Berube, Eminent Scholar Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Educational Leadership
Samuel Bieber, Professor Emeritus of Biological Sciences*
Richard Hugh Bigelow, Professor Emeritus of Civil Engineering*
Frank William Billmyer, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Chemical Sciences*
Janet M. Bing, University Professor Emerita and Professor Emerita of English
Ray S. Birdsong, Professor Emeritus of Biological Sciences and Oceanography*
Carvel H. Blair, Associate Professor Emeritus of Oceanography*
Charles P. Blitch, Professor Emeritus of Economics*
Thomas Blossom, Professor Emeritus of History*
Kathryn Boone, Librarian III Emerita
Darwin F. Bostick, Associate Professor Emeritus of History*
Nicholas Bountress, Professor Emeritus of Communication Disorders and Special Education
Judy Bowman, Assistant Vice President Emerita for Undergraduate Studies
Wayne E. Bowman, Associate Professor Emeritus of English*
Colin Box, Professor Emeritus of Community and Environmental Health*
Carl Boyd, Eminent Scholar Emeritus and Louis I. Jaffe Professor Emeritus of History
Earl W. Bracey, Associate Professor Emeritus of Office Administration*
Martyn Bradley, Associate Athletic Director Emeritus for Sports Medicine and Athletic Training
David Branch, Associate Professor Emeritus of Kinesiology and Health Science
S. Eliot Breneiser, Professor Emeritus of Music*
Violet Breneiser, Assistant Professor Emerita of Foreign Languages & Literatures*
William H. Brenner, Professor Emeritus of Philosophy and Religious Studies
John R. Broderick, Distinguished Lecturer in Higher Education and Public Affairs and President Emeritus
John P. Broderick, University Professor Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of English
Kate Broderick, First Lady Emerita
Kenneth G. Brown, Professor Emeritus of Chemistry and Biochemistry
William R. Brown, Professor Emeritus of Educational Curriculum & Instruction*
Janet E. Brunelle, Master Lecturer Emerita of Computer Science
Lindal Buchanan, Associate Professor Emerita of English and Women’s Studies
Katherine T. Bucher, Professor Emerita of Educational Curriculum and Instruction
James L. Bugg, Jr., President Emeritus and Eminent Professor Emeritus of History*
Gordon C. Buhrer, Assistant Professor Emeritus of Management Information Systems and Decision Sciences*
Charles O. Burgess, Professor Emeritus of English*
Dana Burnett, Professor of Practice Emeritus of Educational Foundations and Leadership
C.J. Butler, Master Lecturer Emeritus of Communication Disorders and Special Education
C
James Van Dyck Card, Professor Emeritus of English*
Dianne Carmody, University Professor Emerita and Associate Professor Emerita of Sociology and Criminal Justice
Leslie G. Carr, Associate Professor Emeritus of Sociology and Criminal Justice*
Jimmie Carraway, University Distinguished Teacher Emeritus and Senior Lecturer Emeritus of Information Technology and Decision Sciences
Marion Carroll, Assistant Professor Emeritus of Exercise Science, Physical Education and Recreation
Keith A. Carson, Associate Professor Emeritus of Biological Sciences
Thomas R. Cash, Professor Emeritus of Psychology
Wilkie Chaffin, Professor Emeritus of Information Systems and Decision Sciences*
Paul Champagne, Professor Emeritus of Management
Joseph C. Chandler, Professor Emeritus of Health and Physical Education*
David Chapman, Master Lecturer Emeritus of Public Service
Thomas Chapman, Associate Professor Emeritus of Political Science & Geography
Robert Y. K. Cheng, Professor Emeritus of Civil Engineering*
Kwang S. Choi, Associate Professor Emeritus of Finance
Kae H. Chung, Professor Emeritus of Management
Allen K. Clark, Professor Emeritus of Chemistry and Biochemistry*
Forrest P. Clay, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Physics*
Benjamin F. Clymer, Associate Professor Emeritus of Library Science*
Glynn D. Coates, Professor Emeritus of Psychology*
Sheri R. Colberg-Ochs, Professor Emerita of Human Movement Sciences
Faye E. Coleman, Associate Professor Emerita of Medical Diagnostic and Translational Sciences*
Charlie H. Cooke, Professor Emeritus of Mathematics and Statistics*
Reuben Cooper, Professor Emeritus of Speech*
Gary E. Copeland, Professor Emeritus of Physics*
Samuel F. Coppage, Jr., Associate Professor Emeritus of Information Technology and Decision Sciences*
Joseph Cosco, Associate Professor Emeritus of English
James L. Cox, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Physics
Matilda Cox, Master Lecturer Emerita of English
Jeremiah Creedon, Director Emeritus of Transportation Research
Edward M. Cross, Professor Emeritus of Information Systems and Decision Sciences*
Ernest J. Cross, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Aerospace Engineering*
Gary R. Crossman, Professor Emeritus of Engineering Technology
William H. Crouch, Associate Professor Emeritus of Information Technology and Decision Sciences
Jon R. Crunkleton, Associate Professor Emeritus of Finance
Gabriel T. Csanady, Professor Emeritus of Oceanography*
Frederick W. Culpepper, Professor Emeritus of Occupational and Technical Studies*
William G. Cunningham, Eminent Scholar Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Educational Leadership and Counseling
Stephen G. Cupschalk, Associate Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering
Robert F. Curry, Director Emeritus of Advising for Distance Learning
D
Ram C. Dahiya, Eminent Scholar Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Mathematics and Statistics
Dayle Daines, Associate Professor Emerita of Biological Sciences
Kenneth G. Daley, University Professor Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Art*
Jane H.  Dané, Associate Vice President Emerita for Enrollment Management
Joseph C. Daniel, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Biological Sciences and Dean Emeritus of College of Sciences*
Mona Danner, Professor Emerita of Sociology and Criminal Justice
Dennis A. Darby, Professor Emeritus of Ocean, Earth and Atmospheric Sciences
Michele L. Darby, Eminent Scholar Emerita, University Professor Emerita and Professor Emerita of Dental Hygiene*
Daniel M. Dauer, Eminent Scholar Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Biological Sciences
Anne S. Daughtrey, Professor Emerita of Management*
Donald D. Davis, Associate Professor Emeritus of Psychology
John J. Davye, Professor Emeritus of Music*
Frank P. Day, Eminent Scholar Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Biological Sciences
Dianne deBeixedon, Associate Professor Emerita of Art
Charles M. DeHority, Professor Emeritus of Management*
Chandra R. de Silva, Professor Emeritus of History
Diana L. Deadrick, Associate Professor Emerita of Management
Walter F. Deal, III, Associate Professor Emeritus of Occupational and Technical Studies
Elizabeth S. deBedts, Associate Professor Emerita of Library Science*
Ralph deBedts, Professor Emeritus of History*
David E. Delzell, Professor Emeritus of Biological Sciences*
Valerian Derlega, Professor Emeritus of Psychology
John J. DeRolf, III, Professor Emeritus of Educational Leadership and Services*
Amin N. Dharamsi, Professor Emeritus of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Beth Ann Dickie, Director Emerita, Office of Educational Accessibility
Gail Dickinson, Professor Emerita of STEM Education and Professional Studies
Terry L. Dickinson, Professor Emeritus of Psychology
Paul A. Dicklin, Associate Professor Emeritus of Speech Communication and Theater Arts*
Fred C. Dobbs, Professor Emeritus of Ocean and Earth Sciences
Leonard E. Dobrin, Associate Professor Emeritus of Sociology and Criminal Justice*
Carol A. Doll, Professor Emerita of Teaching and Learning
Frances Dolloph, Community and Student Success Director Emerita, Distance Learning
J. Mark Dorrepaal, Professor Emeritus of Mathematics and Statistics
Lawrence G. Dotolo, President Emeritus of the Virginia Tidewater Consortium
Michael J. Doviak, Associate Professor Emeritus of Mathematics and Statistics
Suzanne Doviak, Senior Lecturer Emerita of Mathematics and Statistics*
Lynn Doyle, Associate Professor Emerita of Educational Leadership
Chris Drake, Professor Emerita of Political Science and Geography
William A. Drewry, Professor Emeritus of Civil and Environmental Engineering*
James Duffy, Associate Vice President Emeritus for Academic Affairs
Cynthia B. Duncan, University Librarian Emerita*
Perry M. Duncan, Associate Professor Emeritus of Psychology
Thomas H. Dunham, Associate Professor Emeritus of Ocean, Earth and Atmospheric Sciences
Robert F. Dunker, Medical Director Emeritus of Student Health Services
ReNeé S. Dunman, Assistant Vice President Emerita for Equity and Diversity
William Dunstan, Professor Emeritus of Ocean, Earth and Atmospheric Sciences*
E
Carolyn Eakin, Director Emerita of Technology and Data Analysis
John L. Echternach, Eminent Scholar Emeritus of Physical Therapy*
Patricia Edwards, Senior Lecturer Emerita of Art
A. James English, Associate Professor Emeritus of Community and Environmental Health*
Elizabeth Esinhart, Senior Lecturer Emerita of Political Science and Geography
Edward R. Estes, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Civil Engineering Technology*
Natalie W. Etheridge, Associate Professor Emerita of Health, Physical Education and Recreation
F
John A. Fahey, Associate Professor Emeritus of Foreign Languages and Literatures*
Joong Fang, Professor Emeritus of Philosophy*
Anita C. Fellman, Professor Emerita of History
Dale Feltes, Director Emeritus of Design and Construction
Raymond E. Ferrari, Associate Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering Technology*
T. Ross Fink, Professor Emeritus of Education*
Charlene E. Fleener, Associate Professor Emerita of Teaching and Learning
Ike L. Flory, Associate Professor Emeritus of Engineering Technology
Beverly Forbes, Associate Director Emerita for Experiential Education Programs
Lewis S. Ford, Louis I. Jaffe Professor Emeritus of Humanities and Professor Emeritus of Philosophy and Religious Studies*
Jennifer Foss, Director Emerita of Student Health Services
Stephen Foster, Professor Emeritus of Foreign Languages and Literatures
Willard C. Frank, Associate Professor Emeritus of History*
Mark Fravel, Professor Emeritus of Educational Curriculum and Instruction*
Frederick G. Freeman, Professor Emeritus of Psychology
Justin C. Friberg, Professor Emeritus of Political Science and Geography*
Morel Fry, Assistant University Librarian Emerita for Administration
G
Robert A. Gable, Eminent Scholar Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Communication Disorders and Special Education
Ann E. Gargett, Professor Emerita of Ocean, Earth and Atmospheric Sciences
Lucille L. Garner, Librarian III Emerita*
Glenn A. Gerdin, Associate Professor Emeritus of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Bill Gideon, Associate Director Emeritus for Military Programs, Distance Learning
Henry Barry Gillen, Associate Professor Emeritus of Psychology*
Philip S. Gillette, Associate Professor Emeritus of Political Science and Geography
Billy J. Gilpin, Associate Professor Emeritus of Mathematics and Statistics
Myron Glassman, Professor Emeritus of Marketing
Albert S. Glickman, Eminent Professor Emeritus of Psychology
Albert I. Godden, Associate Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering Technology*
Gennaro L. Goglia, Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering and Mechanics*
Andrew S. Gordon, Professor Emeritus of Biological Sciences
Fred W. Granger, Associate Professor Emeritus of Information Technology and Decision Sciences
William H. Graves, Professor Emeritus of Counseling and Human Services and Dean Emeritus of the Darden College of Education
Douglas G. Greene, Professor Emeritus of History
Richard V. Gregory, Professor Emeritus of Chemistry and Biochemistry
Gail Grisetti, Associate Professor Emerita of Physical Therapy and Athletic Training*
Chester E. Grosch, Eminent Professor Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Ocean, Earth, and Atmospheric Sciences*
Vance E. Grover, Professor Emeritus of Accounting*
Elizabeth C. Guy, Associate Professor Emerita of Psychology*
H
John R. Hackworth, University Professor Emeritus and Associate Professor Emeritus of Engineering Technology
Randy Haddock, Senior Lecturer Emeritus, College of Engineering and Technology
David R. Hager, Professor Emeritus of Political Science and Higher Education Administration*
Jane M. Hager, Professor Emerita of Teaching and Learning*
Adolphus Hailstork, Eminent Scholar Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Music
Jean R. Halladay, Associate Professor Emeritus of English*
Hiroyuki Hamada, Associate Professor Emeritus of Exercise Science, Sport, Physical Education and Recreation
Thomas T. Hamilton, Associate Professor Emeritus of History*
David F. Harnage, Chief Operating Officer Emeritus*
Ruth F. Harrell, Professor Emerita of Special Education*
Wynford L. Harries, Eminent Scholar Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Physics*
Richard E. Harrington, Associate Professor Emeritus of Engineering Technology*
D. Alan Harris, Associate Professor Emeritus of History*
Ransom B. Harris, Professor Emeritus of Philosophy and Religious Studies*
Thomas L. Harris, Professor Emeritus of Educational Leadership and Counseling*
Lawrence J. Hatab, Professor Emeritus of Philosophy and Religious Studies, Louis I. Jaffe Professor Emeritus of Arts and Letters, Eminent Scholar Emeritus, and University Professor Emeritus
Mark D. Havey, Eminent Scholar Emeritus, University Professor Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Physics*
Harold G. Hawn, Professor Emeritus of Music*
Alex Hawryluk, Professor Emeritus of Management*
John Heinbockel, Professor Emeritus of Mathematics and Statistics
Paul Heine, Associate Professor Emeritus of Exercise Science, Sport, Physical Education, and Recreation and Associate Dean Emeritus of the Darden College of Education*
Loree Heller, Professor Emerita of Medical Diagnostic and Translational Sciences
Richard Heller, Eminent Scholar Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Medical Diagnostic and Translational Sciences
Carl O. Helvie, Professor Emeritus of Nursing*
Carl N. Helwig, Associate Professor Emeritus of Educational Foundations and Special Programs*
David E. Henderson, Professor Emeritus of Civil Engineering*
Erlene Hendrix, Associate Professor Emerita of Communication and Theatre Arts
James D. Hendry, Associate Professor Emeritus of Electrical Engineering Technology*
Elizabeth S. Henry, Associate Professor Emerita of Psychology
James O. Henry, Professor Emeritus of Educational Leadership and Services*
Laurie J. Henry, University Professor Emerita and Associate Professor Emerita of Accountancy
Louis H. Henry, Professor Emeritus of Economics and Dean Emeritus of the Honors College
Robert C. Hill, Professor Emeritus of Accounting*
Carole P. Hines, Associate Professor Emerita of English*
Carol F. Hines, Associate Professor Emerita of Art*
S. Philip Hines, Jr., Associate Professor Emeritus of English*
Gene W. Hirschfeld, Eminent Professor Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Dental Hygiene*
Leonard A. Hobbs, Associate Professor Emeritus of Electrical Engineering Technology*
Edward T. Hodges, Associate Professor Emeritus of Mathematics*
Brian Hodson, Director Emeritus of Information Technology in the Darden College of Education
Joyce Hoffmann, Associate Professor Emerita of English
Robert Holden, Professor Emeritus of History
John F. Holley, Associate Professor Emeritus of Foreign Languages and Literatures
John Holsinger, Eminent Scholar Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Biological Sciences*
Paul J. Homsher, Professor Emeritus of Biological Sciences*
William E. Hopkins, Professor Emeritus of Sociology*
Lisa Horth, Professor Emerita of Biological Sciences
Clare Houseman, Associate Professor Emerita of Nursing
Curtis William Howard, III, Assistant Professor Emeritus of Psychology*
Ian David Howard, Professor Emeritus of Physics*
Gilbert R. Hoy, Eminent Scholar Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Physics*
Jen-Kuang Huang, Professor Emeritus of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering
Michael Hucles, Associate Professor Emeritus of History
Sylvia Hudgins, Professor Emerita of Finance
Jesse W. Hughes, Professor Emeritus of Accounting
Natalie Hutchinson, Senior Lecturer Emerita of Mathematics and Statistics
I
Samir Ibrahim, Professor Emeritus of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering*
Linda Irwin-DeVitis, Professor Emerita of Teaching and Learning*
Thomas Isenhour, Professor Emeritus of Chemistry and Biochemistry
Isao Ishibashi, Professor Emeritus of Civil and Environmental Engineering
Arminda Israel, Coordinator Emerita of the Military Career Transition Program and Academic Advisor Emerita
J
Alexander B. Jackson, Professor Emeritus of Art*
Charles W. Jackson, Professor Emeritus of Exercise Science, Physical Education and Recreation*
Katherine Jackson, Master Lecturer Emerita of English
Edward Jacobs, Professor Emeritus of English
Louis H. Janda, Associate Professor Emeritus of Psychology*
James Jarrett, Professor Emeritus of Human Movement Sciences
Beverley B. Johnson, Associate Professor Emerita of Health, Physical Education and Recreation*
David E. Johnson, Associate Professor Emeritus of Art
Dorothy E. Johnson, Associate Professor Emerita of History*
Lynn Johnson, Senior Lecturer Emerita of Management
Ole S. Johnson, Professor Emeritus of Marketing*
Roger A. Johnson, Associate Professor Emeritus of Educational Curriculum and Instruction
Ronald E. Johnson, University Professor Emeritus and Associate Professor Emeritus of Ocean, Earth and Atmospheric Sciences*
Cynthia M. Jones, Eminent Scholar Emerita and Professor Emerita of Ocean and Earth Sciences
Dorothy M. Jones, Associate Professor Emerita of Business Management*
Elliott C. Jones, Associate Professor Emeritus of Art
Franklin Ross Jones, Professor Emeritus of Educational Leadership and Counseling and Dean Emeritus of the Darden College of Education*
Maximilian B. Jones, Professor Emeritus of Management*
Richard Jones, Senior Lecturer Emeritus of Engineering Technology
William B. Jones, Associate Professor Emeritus of Philosophy and Religious Studies
David I. Joyner, Professor Emeritus of Educational Curriculum and Instruction*
Sharon Judge, Professor Emerita of Communication Disorders and Special Education
William Q. Judge, Professor Emeritus of Management and Entrepreneurship and E.V. Williams Endowed Chair Emeritus of Strategic Management
Elaine M. Justice, University Professor Emerita and Associate Professor Emerita of Psychology
K
Osama A. Kandil, Eminent Scholar Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering*
Hideaki Kaneko, Professor Emeritus of Mathematics and Statistics
Kenneth Karloff, Assistant Professor Emeritus of Educational Curriculum and Instruction*
Janet Katz, Associate Dean Emerita, College of Arts and Letters and Associate Professor Emerita of Sociology and Criminal Justice
Allan H. Kaufman, Associate Professor Emeritus of Occupational and Technical Studies
John F. Keeling, Jr., Senior Lecturer Emeritus of Management*
Richard K. Keplar, Associate Professor Emeritus of Engineering Technology*
Robert L. Kernell, Professor Emeritus of Physics*
Katharine C. Kersey, University Professor Emerita and Professor Emerita of Teaching and Learning*
Lewis S. Keyes, Associate Professor Emeritus of Chemistry and Biochemistry*
Govind S. Khandelwal, Professor Emeritus of Physics*
Sue C. Kimmel, Professor Emerita of STEM Education & Professional Studies
Earl C. Kindle, Professor Emeritus of Oceanography and Geophysical Sciences*
Deborah Kinney, Coordinator Emerita for Undergraduate Student Services, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Raymond H. Kirby, Professor Emeritus of Psychology*
Paul W. Kirk, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Biological Sciences*
Jeanie Kline, Executive Academic Initiatives Administrator Emerita
Lee M. Klinefelter, Professor Emeritus of Engineering*
Karl F. Knight, Professor Emeritus of English*
Stephen Knott, Senior Lecturer Emeritus of Human Movement Sciences
Carl F. Koch, Professor Emeritus of Geological Sciences
James V. Koch, President Emeritus and Board of Visitors Professor Emeritus of Economics
James Kosnik, Professor Emeritus of Music and University Professor Emeritus
Karen Kott, Associate Professor Emerita of Physical Therapy and Athletic Training
Edgar A. Kovner, Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering Technology*
Sridharan Krishnaswami, Lecturer Emeritus of Management*
John Kroll, Associate Professor Emeritus of Mathematics and Statistics
Terry Kubichan, University Distinguished Teacher Emerita and Senior Lecturer Emerita of Accountancy
John W. Kuehl, Associate Professor Emeritus of History
Harry S. Kuper, Associate Professor Emeritus of Chemistry and Biochemistry*
L
Ralph V. Lahaie, Professor Emeritus of Speech Communication and Theater Arts*
Philip J. Langlais, Professor Emeritus of Psychology
John D. Lape, Lecturer Emeritus of Information Technology and Decision Sciences
Mounir Laroussi, Professor Emeritus of Electrical & Computer Engineering
Roland W. Lawrence, Associate Professor Emeritus of Engineering Technology
William Leavitt, Associate Professor Emeritus of Public Service
J. Hirst Lederle, Associate Professor Emeritus of Engineering Technology*
Larry Lee, Associate Professor Emeritus of Mathematics and Statistics
Lorraine M. Lees, University Professor Emerita and Professor Emerita of History
Mark Lesley, Associate Professor Emeritus of Mathematics and Statistics
Parker Lesley, Professor Emeritus of Art*
Irwin B. Levinstein, Associate Professor Emeritus of Computer Science
Gerald L. Levy, Professor Emeritus of Biological Sciences*
Robin J. Lewis, Professor Emerita of Psychology
Linda Lane Lilley, Associate Professor Emerita of Nursing
Elizabeth Lipsmeyer, Associate Professor Emerita of Art
Elizabeth Locke, Senior Lecturer Emerita of Rehabilitation Sciences
Lucien X. Lombardo, Professor Emeritus of Sociology and Criminal Justice
Christopher W. Lovell, Associate Professor Emeritus of Educational Leadership and Counseling
Cameron A. Lowe, Associate Professor Emeritus of Dental Hygiene and Dental Assisting*
Frederick A. Lubich, Professor Emeritus of World Languages and Cultures
Robert A. Lucking, Professor Emeritus of Teaching and Learning
John C. Ludwick, Professor Emeritus of Oceanography*
Judy Luedtke, Executive Director Emerita of Student Transition and Family Programs
James G. Luton, Professor Emeritus of Dental Hygiene
M
John E. MacCormack, Professor Emeritus of Music*
Robert H. MacDonald, Professor Emeritus of Educational Curriculum and Instruction
Robert A. Magoon, Professor Emeritus of Educational Leadership and Services*
George Maihafer, Associate Professor Emeritus of Physical Therapy and Athletic Training
Debra A. Major, Eminent Scholar Emerita and Professor Emerita of Psychology
Jean A. Major, University Librarian Emerita
Wendell E. Malbon, Professor Emeritus of Mathematical Sciences*
Kurt J. Maly, Professor and Eminent Scholar Emeritus of Computer Science and Kaufman Professor Emeritus of Computer Science
Alan Mandell, Professor Emeritus of Educational Curriculum and Instruction*
M. Lee Manning, Eminent Scholar Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Teaching and Learning
Thomas E. Manore, Associate Professor Emeritus of Management Information Systems*
Alf J. Mapp, Jr., Eminent Scholar Emeritus and Louis I. Jaffe Professor Emeritus of English*
Donald K. Marchand, Associate Professor Emeritus of Geological Sciences*
Joseph M. Marchello, Professor Emeritus of Mechanical and Civil Engineering*
Edward P. Markowski, University Professor Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Information Technology and Decision Sciences
Marilyn Marloff, Professor Emerita of Communication and Theatre Arts
Harold G. Marshall, Morgan Professor Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Biological Sciences
Mary E. Marshall, Senior Lecturer Emerita of Philosophy and Religious Studies
Sharon Martin, Community and Student Success Director Emerita
Otto B. Martinson, Professor Emeritus of Accounting*
Richard A. Massey, Associate Vice President Emeritus of Foundations
Terri Mathews, Associate Dean Emerita, College of Sciences
A. Warren Matthews, Professor Emeritus of Philosophy and Religious Studies
Ernest J. Mauer, Professor Emeritus of Art*
Steven D. Maurer, Professor Emeritus of Management*
NorLisa Mayes, Executive Director Emerita of Academic Success Initiatives and Support
William Mazel, Associate Professor Emeritus of Finance*
R. Bruce McAfee, Professor Emeritus of Management
Garrett J. McAuliffe, University Professor Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Counseling and Human Services
Vernon A. McCart, Fine and Performing Arts Reference Librarian and Librarian III Emeritus
Richard C. McCleary, Professor Emeritus of Philosophy*
Robert C. McClelland, Professor Emeritus of Ancient Languages*
Gayle McCombs, University Professor Emerita and Professor Emerita of Dental Hygiene
John R. McConaugha, Associate Professor Emeritus of Ocean, Earth and Atmospheric Sciences
Linda F. McGreevy, Professor Emerita of Art
Timothy C. McKee, Associate Professor Emeritus of Accounting*
James J. McNally, Professor Emeritus of English*
Griffith J. McRee, Associate Professor Emeritus of Electrical and Computer Engineering*
John R. McSweeney, Professor Emeritus of Educational Leadership and Counseling*
E. Grant Meade, Professor Emeritus of Political Science*
Chuh Mei, Eminent Scholar Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Aerospace Engineering
Heinz K. Meier, Eminent Professor Emeritus, Dean Emeritus of the School of Arts and Letters, and Professor Emeritus of History*
Regula A. Meier, Associate Professor Emerita of Foreign Languages and Literatures*
Berhanu Mengistu, Professor Emeritus of Public Service
Constance Merriman, Associate Dean Emerita, Strome College of Business
Jane T. Merritt, Professor Emerita of History
Arthur B. Metheny, Professor Emeritus of Health, Physical Education, Recreation, and Athletics*
Robert F. Michel, Associate Professor Emeritus of Engineering Technology*
Roland Mielke, University Professor Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Modeling, Simulation and Visualization Engineering
Leonid I. Mihalap, Associate Professor Emeritus of Foreign Languages and Literatures*
Peter J. Mikulka, Professor Emeritus of Psychology
John C. Miller, Eminent Professor Emeritus of English*
Malvern L. Miller, Associate Professor Emeritus of Occupational and Technical Studies*
Linda Miller-Dunleavy, Master Lecturer Emerita of Communication Disorders and Special Education
Shelley Mishoe, Professor Emerita of Community and Environmental Health
Susan Mitchell, Director Emerita of Webb University Center and Auxiliary Services
Taj O. Mohieldin, Professor Emeritus of Engineering Technology
Joseph P. Mooney, Professor Emeritus of Educational Leadership and Services*
Kenneth Mopper, Eminent Scholar Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Chemistry and Biochemistry
Raymond F. Morgan, Professor Emeritus of Educational Curriculum and Instruction
Sara A. Morris, Associate Professor Emerita of Management
Gary R. Morrison, Professor Emeritus of STEM Education and Professional Studies
Ula K. Motekat, Professor Emeritus of Accounting*
G. E. Mullin, Professor Emeritus of Economics
Arthur C. Munyan, Professor Emeritus of Geophysical Sciences*
Susan Murray, Senior Lecturer Emerita of Nursing
Lytton J. Musselman, Eminent Scholar Emeritus, Professor Emeritus of Biological Sciences and Mary Payne Hogan Distinguished Professor Emeritus of Botany
Donald A. Myers, Professor Emeritus of Teaching and Learning*
N
Tracy B. Nabers, Associate Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering Technology*
Joyce Neff, Professor Emerita of English
Christianne Nesbitt, Associate Professor Emerita of Nursing
Kneeland Nesius, University Professor Emeritus and Associate Professor Emeritus of Biological Sciences*
Dwight H. Newell, Constance and Colgate Darden Professor Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Educational Leadership and Services*
Jack W. Nickson, Professor Emeritus of Economics*
Ahmed K. Noor, Eminent Scholar Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Modeling, Simulation and Visualization Engineering
Ali Nowroozi, Professor Emeritus of Ocean, Earth and Atmospheric Sciences
Arthur E. Nudelman, Associate Professor Emeritus of Sociology and Criminal Justice*
O
George F. Oertel, Professor Emeritus of Ocean, Earth and Atmospheric Sciences
Donald P. Ogdon, Professor Emeritus of Psychology*
Roy C. Ogle, Professor Emeritus of Medical Diagnostic and Translational Sciences
Virginia S. O'Herron, University Librarian Emerita
Renee Olander, Associate Vice President Emerita for Regional Higher Education Centers
Emilia Oleszak, Associate Professor Emerita of Biological Sciences
Richard Overbaugh, Professor Emeritus of Teaching and Learning
C. Michael Overstreet, Associate Professor Emeritus of Computer Science
Allan Owen, Associate Professor Emeritus of Music
William Owings, Professor Emeritus of Educational Foundations and Leadership*
P
Kay Palmer, Associate Professor Emerita of Nursing
Richard A. Palmer, Assistant Professor Emeritus of Chemistry and Biochemistry
David L. Pancoast, Associate Professor Emeritus of Psychology*
Elizabeth G. Pappas, Associate Professor Emerita of Music*
John M. Patterson, Associate Professor Emeritus of Occupational and Technical Studies*
William H. Patterson, Associate Professor Emeritus of Accounting*
William W. Patterson, Jr., Associate Professor Emeritus of Information Systems and Decision Sciences*
Marian L. Pauson, Associate Professor Emerita of Philosophy and Religious Studies*
Kathy L. Pearson, University Professor Emerita and Associate Professor Emerita of History
Michael P. Pearson, University Professor Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of English
E. Vernon Peele, Dean Emeritus of the School of Arts and Letters*
Janet Peery, University Professor Emerita and Professor Emerita of English
Helen L. Perry, Associate Professor Emerita of Education*
Leland D. Peterson, Professor Emeritus of English*
Margaret C. Phillips, Professor Emerita of Mathematical and Computing Sciences*
Victor A. Pickett, Professor Emeritus of Art*
Wolfgang Pindur, Professor Emeritus of Urban Studies and Public Administration*
Emily V. Pittman, Professor Emerita of Health and Physical Education*
Melvin A. Pittman, Dean Emeritus of the School of Sciences*
Patricia Pleban, Associate Professor Emerita of Chemistry and Biochemistry
Stanley R. Pliska, Professor Emeritus of History*
Louis G. Plummer, Professor Emeritus of Education*
Deborah Polca, Senior Associate Athletic Director Emerita
Norman H. Pollock, Associate Professor Emeritus of History*
Karen Polonko, University Professor Emerita and Professor Emerita of Sociology and Criminal Justice*
Linda Pond, Master Lecturer Emerita of Teaching and Learning
Mary Barclay Porter-Troupe, Senior Lecturer Emerita of English
Ramamurthy Prabhakaran, Professor Emeritus of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering and Eminent Professor Emeritus
Gene Hill Price, Senior Lecturer Emeritus of Computer Science
W. Maurice Pritchard, Professor Emeritus of Physics
Harold J. Protsman, Professor Emeritus of Music*
Anthony J. Provenzano, Professor Emeritus of Ocean, Earth and Atmospheric Sciences
David Putney, Associate Professor Emeritus of Philosophy and Religious Studies
Q
Usman A. Qureshi, Professor Emeritus of Economics*
R
David Radcliffe, Associate Director Emeritus for Military Operations
Philip Raisor, Professor Emeritus of English
John W. Ramsey, Professor Emeritus of Political Science*
Robert Ratzlaff, Associate Professor Emeritus of Biological Sciences
Sharon Raver-Lampman, University Professor Emerita and Professor Emerita of Communication Disorders and Special Education
Anne Raymond-Savage, Associate Professor Emerita of Educational Curriculum and Instruction and Vice Provost Emerita for Distance Learning
Zia Razzaq, Professor Emeritus of Civil & Environmental Engineering
James B. Reece, Professor Emeritus of English*
William T. Reece, Professor Emeritus of Accounting*
Thomas Jackson Reed, Associate Professor Emeritus of Finance*
Elbridge K. Reid, Associate Professor Emeritus of Sociology and Criminal Justice*
Theodore P. Remley, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Counseling and Human Services
Lindsay Rettie, Professor Emerita of Dental Hygiene and Dental Assisting and Dean Emerita of the College of Health Sciences
Sheri Reynolds, University Professor Emerita and Professor Emerita of English
George Steven Rhiel, University Professor Emeritus and Associate Professor Emeritus of Information Technology and Decision Sciences
Carolyn H. Rhodes, Professor Emerita of English and Women’s Studies*
Ernest L. Rhodes, Professor Emeritus of English*
John H. Richardson, Associate Professor Emeritus of Biological Sciences
Roger S. Richman, Professor Emeritus of Urban Studies and Public Administration
Betty R. Ricks, Associate Professor Emerita of Management
William C. Riesenberg, Associate Professor Emeritus of Dental Hygiene*
June Ritchie, Associate Director Emerita, Center for Learning and Teaching
John M. Ritz, Professor Emeritus of STEM Education and Professional Studies
Willard E. Robb, Associate Professor Emeritus of Music*
A. Sidney Roberts, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering*
James T. Robey, Associate Professor Emeritus of Accounting*
Jack E. Robinson, Associate Professor Emeritus of Educational Foundations and Leadership
Thomas M. Robinson, Associate Professor Emeritus of Health, Physical Education, and Recreation*
Alfred B. Rollins, Jr., President Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of History*
Patrick J. Rollins, Professor Emeritus of History*
Robert K. Rose, Professor Emeritus of Biological Sciences
Helen C. Rountree, Professor Emerita of Anthropology
Thomas C. Royer, Eminent Scholar Emeritus and Slover Professor Emeritus of Ocean, Earth and Atmospheric Sciences
Leonard I. Ruchelman, Eminent Scholar Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Urban Studies and Public Administration
Murray Rudisill, Professor Emeritus of Educational Curriculum and Instruction
Nancy Rudolph, Community and Student Success Director Emerita, Distance Learning
Charles E. Ruhl, Professor Emeritus of English*
Joseph H. Rule, Professor Emeritus of Ocean, Earth and Atmospheric Sciences
Richard A. Rutyna, Associate Professor Emeritus of History*
S
Annabel L. Sacks, Director of Student Services Emerita
Janis V. Sanchez-Hucles, Professor Emerita of Psychology
Allen G. Sandler, Associate Professor Emeritus of Early Childhood, Speech-Language Pathology and Special Education
Kent Sandstrom, Professor Emeritus of Sociology and Criminal Justice
Kehar S. Sangha, Professor Emeritus of Economics*
Clifford C. Saunders, Professor Emeritus of Sociology
Judith S. Schapiro, Professor Emerita of Child Study and Special Education*
Joanne Scheibman, Associate Professor Emerita of English
Adrienne D. Schellings, Associate Professor Emerita of Library Science*
Henry H. Schmoele, Jr., Associate Professor Emeritus of Vocational and Technical Education*
Karl H. Schoenbach, Eminent Scholar Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Reiko M. Schwab, Associate Professor Emerita of Educational Leadership and Counseling*
Ann V. Schwarz-Miller, Associate Professor Emerita of Economics
Louis Searleman, Associate Professor Emeritus of Accounting*
Herbert Lee Sebren, Associate Professor Emeritus of English*
Scott R. Sechrist, Associate Professor Emeritus of Medical Diagnostic and Translational Sciences
Tim Seibles, Professor Emeritus of English
Bruce Seifert, Professor Emeritus of Finance
Gregory V. Selby, Professor Emeritus of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering
Simon H. Serfaty, Eminent Scholar Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of International Studies
Joseph C. Sever, Jr., Associate Professor Emeritus of Communication Disorders and Special Education
William W. Seward, Professor Emeritus of English*
Stephen P. Shao, Professor Emeritus of Management Information Systems and Decision Sciences*
Stewart N. T. Shen, Professor Emeritus of Computer Science*
Calder S. Sherwood, III, Professor Emeritus of Chemical Science and Physical and Geophysical Science*
David L. Shores, Professor Emeritus of English
Deanne Shuman, Professor Emerita of Dental Hygiene
Charles K. Sibley, Professor Emeritus of Art*
Jose G. Simon, Associate Professor Emeritus of Foreign Languages and Literatures*
Carol Simpson, Professor Emerita of Ocean, Earth and Atmospheric Sciences and Provost and Vice President for Academic Affairs Emerita
J. Taylor Sims, Professor Emeritus of Marketing*
Anusorn Singhapakdi, Professor Emeritus of Marketing
Charles M. Smith, Associate Professor Emeritus of Educational Curriculum and Instruction*
Donald H. Smith, Associate Professor Emeritus of Sociology and Criminal Justice
Eugene F. Smith, Associate Professor Emeritus of Engineering Technology*
Janis Krebs Smith, University Distinguished Teacher Emerita and Senior Lecturer Emerita of English
Theodore F. Smith, Associate Professor Emeritus of Marketing
Ronald W. Snapp, Associate Professor Emeritus of Art
Petra Snowden, Associate Professor Emerita of Educational Leadership and Counseling
John A. Sokolowski, Associate Professor Emeritus of Computational Modeling and Simulation Engineering
Thomas Somma, Associate Professor Emeritus of Medical Diagnostic and Translational Sciences
Daniel Sonenshine, Professor Emeritus of Biological Sciences
Randall S. Spencer, Professor Emeritus of Ocean, Earth and Atmospheric Sciences
Ulysses Van Spiva, Professor Emeritus of Educational Leadership and Counseling and Dean Emeritus of the Darden College of Education*
Randall R. Spurrier, Master Lecturer Emeritus of Accountancy
Judith M. St. George, Clinical Supervisor Emerita of Student Health Services
George M. Stabler, Professor Emeritus of Sociology and Criminal Justice*
William D. Stanley, Eminent Professor Emeritus of Engineering Technology
Robert L. Stern, Professor Emeritus of Political Science*
Ralph Stevens, University Professor Emeritus and Associate Professor Emeritus of Biological Sciences
Peter C. Stewart, Associate Professor Emeritus of History
Edgar Stillwell, Associate Professor Emeritus of Biological Sciences*
Maureen D. Stiner, Senior Lecturer Emerita of Finance
Yates Stirling, III, Associate Professor Emeritus of Engineering*
John W. Stoughton, Professor Emeritus of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Raymond S. Strangways, Professor Emeritus of Economics
Sharon C. Stull, Lecturer Emerita of Dental Hygiene
Glen Sussman, University Professor Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Political Science and Geography*
David P. Swain, University Professor Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Kinesiology & Health Science
Cynthia Wright Swaine, Instructional Services Librarian Emerita*
R. James Swanson, University Professor Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Biological Sciences
Mary M. Swartz, Registrar Emerita
James R. Sweeney, Associate Professor Emeritus of History
John J. Swetits, Professor Emeritus of Mathematics and Statistics
Deborah L. Swiecinski, Associate Vice President Emerita for Financial Services
Donald Swift, Eminent Scholar Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Ocean, Earth and Atmospheric Sciences*
T
John R. Tabb, Professor Emeritus of Economics and Dean Emeritus of the College of Business and Public Administration*
Wayne Talley, Eminent Scholar Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Economics
Michael Tamburello, Associate Professor Emeritus of Rehabilitation Sciences
John F. (Jeff) Tanner, Jr., Dean Emeritus, Strome College of Business, and Professor Emeritus of Marketing
J. Albert Tatem, Jr., Associate Professor Emeritus of Health, Physical Education, and Recreation*
Albert Teich, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Finance*
Lee J. Tepley, Lecturer Emeritus of Music*
George William (GW) Thompson, III, Director Emeritus of the Center for Major Exploration
Gerald Wayne Thompson, Associate Professor Emeritus of Educational Curriculum and Instruction*
Lenora Hicks Thompson, Senior Executive Director Emerita of Counseling Services
Sophie K. Thompson, Associate Professor Emerita of Medical Diagnostic and Translational Sciences
William H. Thornton, Associate Professor Emeritus of Engineering Technology*
Surenda N. Tiwari, Eminent Scholar Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering*
Shunichi Toida, Associate Professor Emeritus of Computer Science
Susan Lynn Tolle, Professor Emerita of Dental Hygiene and University Professor Emerita
A. Rufus Tonelson, Professor Emeritus of Education*
Stephen (Steve) Tonelson, Professor Emeritus of Communication Disorders and Special Education
Patrick K. Tow, Associate Professor Emeritus of Health, Physical Education and Recreation*
Alfred Townsend, Associate Professor Emeritus of Music
Cecelia Taliaferro Tucker, Assistant to the President Emerita for Community Relations
Kimberly Adams Tufts, Professor Emerita of Nursing
Andrew C. Tunogi, Professor Emeritus of Philosophy*
Charlie G. Turner, Associate Professor Emeritus of Economics
John E. Turner, Associate Professor Emeritus of Occupational and Technical Studies
Joseph M. Tyrrell, Professor Emeritus of History*
V
Margaret Daugherty Van Damm, Associate Professor Emerita of English*
John D. Van Norman, Professor Emeritus of Chemical Sciences*
J. Wallace Van Orden, Eminent Scholar Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Physics
P. Thomas Vernier, Research Professor Emeritus of the Frank Reidy Research Center for Bioelectrics
Charles E. Vogan, Professor Emeritus of Music*
Leposava Vušković, Eminent Scholar Emerita and Professor Emerita of Physics
W
Nancy L. Wade, Associate Professor Emerita of Biological Sciences*
William Wagner, Associate Professor Emeritus of Art
John R. Waitekus, Physician Emeritus of Student Health Services
Alice P. Wakefield, Associate Professor Emerita of Teaching and Learning
Martha Walker, Associate Professor Emerita of Rehabilitation Sciences
Leon R. L. Wang, Professor Emeritus of Civil and Environmental Engineering*
Stanley E. Warner, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Accounting*
Sandra Waters, Executive Director Emerita for Advising Administration and Academic Partnerships
Harold Q. Webb, Professor Emeritus of Management*
Lewis W. Webb, Jr., President Emeritus*
Katarina Wegar, Associate Professor Emerita of Sociology and Criminal Justice
Stanley E. Weinstein, Professor Emeritus of Mathematics and Statistics
Thomas L. Wells, Associate Professor Emeritus of Political Science and Geography
Marek Wermus, Associate Professor Emeritus of Information Technology and Decision Sciences
Terri N. Wheaton, Director Emerita of Intake and Student Success Online
Rogers D. Whichard, Professor Emeritus of French Language and Literature*
William F. Whitbeck, Professor Emeritus of Marketing*
Debbie Harmison White, Senior Associate Athletic Director Emerita for External Relations
Edward L. White, Professor Emeritus of the School of Engineering*
Garland White, Associate Professor Emeritus of Sociology and Criminal Justice*
Frederick D. Whitehurst, Professor Emeritus of Accounting
G. William Whitehurst, George M. and Linda H. Kaufman University Lecturer Emeritus of Public Affairs
Richard Whittecar, University Professor Emeritus and Associate Professor Emeritus of Ocean, Earth and Atmospheric Sciences
J. Christian Wild, Associate Professor Emeritus of Computer Science
Melvin H. Williams, Eminent Scholar Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Exercise Science, Physical Education and Recreation*
Roy L. Williams, Professor Emeritus of Chemistry and Biochemistry*
Charles E. Wilson, Jr., University Professor Emeritus, Dean Emeritus of the College of Arts and Letters, and Professor Emeritus of English
Conrad S. Wilson, Jr., Associate Professor Emeritus of English*
Daniel S. Wilson, Associate Professor Emeritus of English*
Harold S. Wilson, Professor Emeritus of History
Jack H. Wilson, Professor Emeritus of English
Larry W. Wilson, Associate Professor Emeritus of Computer Science
Barbara Winstead, Professor Emerita of Psychology
Konrad Winters, Associate Professor Emeritus of Communication and Theatre Arts*
Pauline K. Wise, Associate Professor Emerita of Elementary Education*
Philip R. Wohl, Associate Professor Emeritus of Mathematics and Statistics*
Denny T. Wolfe, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Educational Curriculum and Instruction
Lloyd Wolfinbarger, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Biological Sciences
George T. Wong, Professor Emeritus of Ocean, Earth and Atmospheric Sciences
Ronald R. Woodard, Director Emeritus of Transfer Services, Distance Learning
Robert J. Wunderlin, Associate Professor Emeritus of Psychology*
Agnes Fuller Wynne, Master Lecturer Emerita of Music*
Y
Betty J. H. Yarborough, Eminent Scholar Emeritus and Constance and Colgate Darden Professor of Education Emeritus*
Steve Yetiv, University Professor Emeritus, Louis I. Jaffe Professor Emeritus of Arts & Letters, and Professor Emeritus of Political Science and Geography*
Gilbert R. Yochum, Professor Emeritus of Economics
Robert F. Young, Associate Professor Emeritus of Music*
James H. Yuan, Professor Emeritus of Chemistry and Biochemistry
Helen Yura, Professor Emerita of Nursing*
Z
Jacques S. Zaneveld, Professor Emeritus of Oceanography*
Donald Zeigler, Professor Emeritus of Political Science and Geography*
Dennis Zeisler, University Professor Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Music*
Douglas Ziegenfuss, Professor Emeritus of Accountancy
Michelle L. Zimmerman, Associate Professor Emerita of Nursing
* Deceased
