Financial Information
Continuing Education Financial Information
Continuing Education can accept payments for courses in several different forms. ODU's helpful staff can assist you in determining if you might qualify for any number of various funding options that could assist you with non-credit continuing educational opportunities to improve your marketability and advance your career.
Generally speaking, if a student is paying directly without alternate funding sources, the payment can be made by credit card or check. There are specific steps for students who utilize employer or sponsor funding.
Funding Options
Payment by Credit Card or Check
ODU accepts most credit cards (American Express, Visa, MasterCard & Discover). For non-credit offerings, credit cards can only be accepted online through our registration system, MonarchCE . Once payment is successfully completed, you will receive payment verification and a registration confirmation by email.
Checks are accepted when payment is made by mail through Continuing Education.
Military Benefits
ODU is honored to offer MyCAA (Military Spouse Career Advancement Accounts) as one of its many programs. MyCAA is a workforce development program that provides up to $4,000 of tuition assistance to eligible military spouses over 2 years to pursue an associates degree program, licenses or credentials. Find MyCAA information.
Employer/Other Sponsor Funding
Many employers offer tuition assistance (TA) in their employee benefits package. If you are not familiar with your company's policies regarding TA, you should talk to your Human Resources Department. To use tuition assistance at ODU, your company should submit a memo on company letterhead stating that the company accepts the financial debt of the tuition. Please make sure the memo lists the course name, tuition amount and the student name. Submit this memo to Continuing Education.
Workforce Development Board
The Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA) is a United States public law intended to bring about increased coordination among federal workforce development and related programs.
You may qualify under Title I — Workforce Development Activities, which authorizes job training and related services to unemployed or underemployed individuals, and establishes the governance and performance accountability system for WIOA
Hampton Roads Workforce Council : The Hampton Roads Workforce Council (HRWC) is a special purpose unit of local government that oversees workforce development programs and initiatives for the Cities of Chesapeake, Franklin, Hampton, Newport News, Norfolk, Poquoson, Portsmouth, Suffolk, Virginia Beach, Williamsburg, and the Counties of Gloucester, Isle of Wight, James City, Southampton, and York.
Virginia Career Works : Virginia Career Works provides three levels of service:  Career Services Basic, Career Services Individualized and Training Services.  Virginia Career Works services are funded through the US Department of Labor at no cost to the job seeker.
Private Loan Options
If you would like to investigate the private loan option to assist in funding your education, the process is very easy. See our list of frequently used private loan lenders (please note, you will be taken to another website).
Tax Information
Looking for a 1098-T form?
The courses offered by ODU Global Continuing Professional Education are non-credit programs and as such we do not provide 1098-T forms. However, continuing education students may be eligible for the Lifetime Learning tax credit.
For detailed information, consult IRS Publication 970, Tax Benefits for Higher Education, which describes the tax credits along with other tax savings opportunities related to the higher cost of education. It may be obtained at any IRS office, at http://www.irs.gov/publications/p970/ch03.html , or by calling 1-800-829-1040.
Questions? We're here to help.
Contact Continuing Education
