WLC 195 Topics in World Languages & Cultures (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics for elective credit. These courses will appear in the course schedule.
WLC 196 Topics in World Languages & Cultures (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics for elective credit. These courses will appear in the course schedule.
WLC 210 Language in Motion (1 Credit Hour)
This course provides opportunities for world language students with study-abroad and international experience to expand their knowledge of language and culture-learning experiences, and to enrich local public school language classrooms. In addition to attending training workshops on topic section, methodology, and techniques, students will confer with the instructor and host teachers/community partners to develop individual projects for presentations in school classrooms. Particular activities will depend on the knowledge and interests of the students and the requests of the host teachers (International Education Week, National French Week, etc.).
Prerequisites: Undergraduate or graduate level world language study and study/sojourn abroad experience
WLC 369 Foreign Language Practicum (3 Credit Hours)
Internships in private, public and business organizations that deal with foreign nationals, foreign products or are involved in teaching a foreign language.
Prerequisites: Nine credit hours of upper-level language at ODU and junior standing
WLC 452 Methods for Teaching World Languages in Pre-K through Grade 12 (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides students with a foundation of major theoretical methods of teaching and learning a world language, focusing mainly on current theories; laws, regulations, and policies in Virginia; language advocacy; and a systematic approach to the practical tools of creating a positive learning environment, designing a pacing guide, syllabus, unit and lesson plans, rubric and assessment guides, formulating a personal teaching philosophy, teaching mini lessons, and creation of a professional e-Portfolio based on VDOE Performance Standards and Evaluation Criteria for Teachers. Offered in asynchronous format with a few meetings with the professor and classmates, this course precedes student teaching.
Prerequisites: Admission to the Teacher Preparation Program, a cumulative and major GPA of 2.75 with grades of C or higher, SAT or ACT scores, qualifying score of the VCLA; teachers with provisional licenses need only to provide a copy of the letter from VDOE listing a methods course requirement
Pre- or corequisite: ACTFL certification or oral proficiency assessments (OPI) at the Advanced low level or higher and certificates for dyslexia, first aid, and child abuse and neglect
WLC 456 Seminar in World Languages Teacher Education (1 Credit Hour)
Students complete 30-hours of observation and may practice teaching methods under supervision in a PreK-12 world language classroom. By the end of the semester, students must provide qualifying scores on the VCLA, PRAXIS II Subject Area Assessment of Spanish, French, or German, ACTFL Oral and Writing Proficiency Assessments, and certificates for Child Abuse and Neglect Recognition and Intervention Training, Emergency First Aid, CPR & AED Certification, Dyslexia Awareness Training, and Behavior Intervention and Support Training. Available for pass/fail grading only.
Prerequisites: Admission to the Teacher Preparation program, a cumulative and major GPA of 2.75 with grades of C or higher, SAT or ACT scores, and qualifying score of the VCLA
Pre- or corequisite: ACTFL certification or oral proficiency assessments (OPI) at the Advanced low level or higher and certificates for dyslexia, first aid, and child abuse and neglect
WLC 480W Senior Seminar in International Studies (3 Credit Hours)
Interdisciplinary research and the preparation of a senior thesis in international studies. This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: Grade of C or better in ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C , senior standing in the BAIS degree program or permission of the instructor and the director of the BAIS program
WLC 495/595 Topics in World Languages & Cultures (1-3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics designed to permit small groups of qualified students to work on subjects of mutual interest which, due to their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly. These courses will appear in the course schedule.
Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor
WLC 497 Tutorial Work in Special Topics in World Languages & Cultures (1-6 Credit Hours)
Independent readings and study on a topic to be selected under direction of professor.
Prerequisites: Appropriate survey course or permission by the instructor
WLC 498 Tutorial Work in Special Topics in World Languages & Cultures (1-6 Credit Hours)
Independent readings and study on a topic to be selected under direction of professor.
Prerequisites: Appropriate survey course or permission by the instructor
WLC 595 Topics in World Languages & Cultures (1-3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics designed to permit small groups of qualified students to work on subjects of mutual interest which, due to their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly. These courses will appear in the course schedule.
Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor
Search catalog
