Graduate Courses
INBU 367 Cooperative Education (1-3 Credit Hours)
May be repeated for credit.  Supervised experience in the international business work place requiring written statement of objectives and evaluation of experience.  Pass/fail grading only.
Prerequisites: Permission of IB coordinator and Career Development Services, and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
INBU 368 Internship in International Business (1-3 Credit Hours)
Supervised experience in the international business work place requiring written statement of objectives and evaluation of experience.  Pass/fail grading only.
Prerequisites: Permission of IB coordinator and Career Development Services, and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
INBU 431 Doing Business in Europe (3 Credit Hours)
A survey course to provide an overview of the contemporary business environment in Europe, with a focus on the European Union.  Topics will include an examination of the social, political, and economic forces which affect business in Europe.
Prerequisites: MGMT 325 , FIN 323 , and MKTG 311 or permission of the instructor, and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
INBU 432 Doing Business in Latin America (3 Credit Hours)
A survey  to provide an overview of the contemporary business environment in Latin America.  Topics will include an examination of the social, political and economic forces which affect business in Latin America.
Prerequisites: MGMT 325 , FIN 323 , and MKTG 311 or permission of the instructor, and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
INBU 433 Doing Business in Asia (3 Credit Hours)
An analysis of business practices in Asia.  Emphasis will be on business, government relations, business strategy, structure, organizational processes, and human resource management.
Prerequisites: MGMT 325 , FIN 323 , and MKTG 311 or permission of the instructor, and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
INBU 434 International Trade Field Study (3 Credit Hours)
An applied field research study to develop an export trade plan which involves market analysis, risk analysis, financing and distribution decisions in overseas markets.
Prerequisites: ECON 450 , MKTG 411 , FIN 435 or MGMT 361 , or permission of the instructor, and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
INBU 436 International Business Law (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the sources of international business law, the relationship between such law and the U.S. legal system, the choice of law in international business disputes, the special issues that arise when doing business with foreign governments, the law governing international sales and the shipment of goods, and international intellectual property protection. In addition, the relationships between law and culture involved in international business transactions will be examined.
Prerequisites: WCS 350 and a declared major in the university or permission of the Dean’s Office
INBU 437 International Human Resource Management (3 Credit Hours)
International HRM focuses on the management of human resources in an international context.  The course will focus on policies, programs and practice characteristics of organizational efforts to manage human assets worldwide, including an overview of cross-national team dynamics and communication systems, leadership techniques, and national employment laws.  It will also explore the critical impact that these policies have on the success of firms in doing business abroad.
Prerequisites: MGMT 325 (or equivalent) or permission of the instructor, and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
INBU 438 Globalization and International Trade (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides an economic overview of international trade and the theories that support globalization and international trade policies. The course introduces students to the global value chain and its stakeholders, with an emphasis on costs, transportation, infrastructure, and technology. Students will examine supply chain management processes that organizations use to successfully manage import and export operations.
Prerequisites: ECON 201S and ECON 202S , and a declared major in the university or permission of the Dean’s office
INBU 450 Global Business (3 Credit Hours)
Lecture, discussion and case studies.  A capstone course to integrate and apply the theories and concepts learned in required international business courses to the operations of international business organizations.
Prerequisites: ECON 450 , MKTG 411 , FIN 435 , or permission of the instructor, and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
INBU 463 International Business Seminar Abroad (3 Credit Hours)
A study tour abroad arranged in cooperation with a foreign university, including lectures on international business topics and visits to international firms and economic/business organizations.  Written work required.
Prerequisites: a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
INBU 495 Topics in International Business (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics, the title of which will appear in the course schedule.
Prerequisites: permission of the IB coordinator, and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
INBU 496 Topics in International Business (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics, the title of which will appear in the course schedule.
Prerequisites: permission of the IB coordinator, and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
INBU 497 Independent Study in International Business (1-3 Credit Hours)
Affords students the opportunity to undertake independent study under the direction of a faculty member.
Prerequisites: permission of the department
INBU 620 International Business Issues (2 Credit Hours)
Students will develop a deep understanding of the issues facing international firms.  The course will use case studies, lectures, and simulations to highlight the cultural, organizational, and financial challenges to doing business in various regions of the world with particular emphasis on Europe, China, and India.
Prerequisites: Admission to the MBA Program and ECON 618
INBU 630 Fundamentals of International Business (1 Credit Hour)
This course covers topics from management, marketing, economics, and finance that are important to the study of international business.
INBU 631 International Business Issues (2 Credit Hours)
This 2 hour capstone course covers topics facing international firms.  This course uses a combination of case studies, lectures, and simulations to highlight the cultural, organizational, and financial challenges to doing business in various regions of the world.
Search catalog
