4100 Education Building 757-683-4575
James E. Bartlett, II, Ph.D., Graduate Program Director
The Ph.D. degree in Community College Leadership is designed to equip leaders for the nation's community colleges and develop researchers focusing on community college topics. The curriculum is tailored for professionals aiming to expand their knowledge and advance their careers. It includes courses in leadership, administration, workforce development, curriculum design, finance, and policy development, with an emphasis on improving student success and labor market outcomes. Participants will acquire skills that prepare them for high-level leadership positions at community colleges, as well as roles as faculty members, researchers, national policy advocates, and leaders in federal and state organizations (such as system offices, state agencies, and federal agencies), workforce development leaders, as well as other related careers.
Students engage in a cohort model, promoting a shared learning experience, community engagement, and the broadening of professional networks. Working professionals from across the U.S. participate in live, online classes throughout the year and attend an annual, one-week Summer Institute. At the Institute, they connect with faculty, colleagues, and guest scholars. The curriculum is divided into four main areas: core community college content courses, research methods courses, electives, and a dissertation. This program is available online, with the face-to-face Summer Institute.
Admission
Prospective students seeking admission to the Ph.D. program in Community College Leadership must:
Meet all University admission requirements as listed in the Old Dominion University Catalog;
Have a completed Master's degree;
Provide three (3) letters of recommendation.  At least one letter must come from an individual can describe the applicant's academic performance and writing ability. Letters from senior-level leaders that endorse the applicant's leadership potential are encouraged;
Provide a 1-page, single-spaced essay that presents a concise statement about your academic and professional background, your career goals, and your reasons for applying to this degree program. Please be specific in explaining how this program aligns with your educational and career objectives.
Provide an original academic writing sample, up to 2 pages single-spaced, in which you identify at least one thematic research area of interest and explain your interest in this area. Possible topics may include completion and transfer, learning outcomes, labor market outcomes, equity, technology, culture/organizational behavior, or a topic of your choosing. Be sure to describe the issue at hand and explain its significance to community college research and practice.
Provide a CV or resume that describes the applicant’s academic and professional background;
Applicants whose native language is not English must submit a current score for the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) iBT of at least 80.
Applications for admission are on a rolling basis. Graduate assistantships are awarded in February annually. The admissions committee will review and select applicants. Interviews may be used to determine final admissions decisions.
Admitted students will complete the first Summer Institute in the summer semester following their admission. Students admitted for the summer will start with the Summer Institute, while those admitted in the fall or spring will complete their first Summer Institute in the subsequent summer. Both first- and second-year students are expected to attend the Summer Institute and will enroll in two courses, with the majority of the meeting time scheduled during their week at Old Dominion University's main campus. The dissertation requires a minimum of nine credit hours, depending on the time necessary for a student to complete their dissertation work.
.
