Graduate Courses
PE 101+ Swim Conditioning (1 Credit Hour)
Students will discuss and learn the training process including advantages and benefits of swimming, principles of training, training procedures, evaluation and motivation, and minor annoyances. Stroke mechanics and improvement and information for triathletes.
PE 102+ Beginning Swimming (1 Credit Hour)
Development of the basic water safety skills and knowledge to make one reasonably safe in the water.
PE 103+ Intermediate Swimming (1 Credit Hour)
Instruction in all strokes will be covered.
Prerequisites: must be comfortable in deep water
PE 104+ Lifeguard Training (2 Credit Hours)
Development of the skills and knowledge designed to save the life of another in the event of an emergency in the water.  Red Cross certification.
PE 105+ Water Safety Instruction (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide the student with knowledge and skills in water safety and teaching techniques for certification to teach swimming, lifesaving, rescue and water safety courses.  Red Cross Water Safety Instructor Certificate upon successful completion.
Prerequisites: must be at least 17, in sound physical condition, and have the ability to perform skills in the level VI ARC swim course
PE 112+ Yoga (1-2 Credit Hours)
The 1-credit option of this course focuses on yoga postures and breathing exercises. The 2-credit option provides a foundation for the understanding and practice of Hatha yoga in its complete form. Course covers yoga postures, breathing exercises, philosophy, and meditation.
PE 115+ Introduction to Rock Climbing (1 Credit Hour)
This course is designed to guide students through several processes in rock climbing.  Students will be able to properly fit a harness, tie in to the system, use passive and active belay devices, and perform basic rescues.  The class will also focus on proper climbing technique and injury prevention.  Additionally, rock climbing facility administration will be discussed.
PE 117+ Accessible Fitness and Wellness (1-2 Credit Hours)
Designed for students who self-identify as having social, cognitive, emotional, psychological, or physical limitations who would benefit from a small group and/or individualized fitness/nutritional training program. Students will learn the basic principles about cardiovascular/aerobic training and resistance/weight training to increase flexibility, balance and overall fitness. Upon completion, students should be able to plan and implement a personal, lifelong fitness program based on their individual needs, abilities, goals and interests.  Course will also include classes on nutrition to increase overall wellness.
PE 118+ Weight Training (1 Credit Hour)
Designed to allow students an individualized weight training program.  The program will include use of free weights, universal, and other appropriate tools for the variety of weight training differences.
PE 134+ Beginning Golf (1 Credit Hour)
The fundamentals of golf, stance, grip, swing, rules, and etiquette are presented.  Driving range and golf course may be used.  Students pay all fees.
PE 140+ Beginning Self-Defense (1 Credit Hour)
The student is introduced to the various practical skills and methods of self-defense. Judo, Aikido, Jujutsu, and Karate are combined to explore the most effective means to defend oneself.
PE 141+ Intermediate Self-Defense (1 Credit Hour)
This course is designed to give the student further instruction and practice in the various practical skills and methods of self-defense.
Prerequisites: PE 140+
PE 142+ Beginning Karate (1 Credit Hour)
This course is designed to give the traditional Karate training ('Art of Empty Hand') to the beginning student. It emphasizes the traditional mode of training with mental and physical discipline. Formal Kata, defensive skills, punches, kicks, and blocking techniques are introduced.
PE 143+ Intermediate Karate (1 Credit Hour)
This course is designed to give the student further instruction and practice in traditional Karate.
Prerequisites: PE 142+
PE 144+ Advanced Karate (1 Credit Hour)
This course is designed to introduce further instruction and practice in traditional martial art aspects of Karate-doh. Philosophical understanding and high level of skill proficiency are emphasized.
Prerequisites: PE 143+
PE 145+ Theory of Advanced Karatedo (1 Credit Hour)
This course is designed to provide the theoretical framework of Karatedo that embodies the higher principle of physical and mental dynamics and aims to achieve the advanced skills in Karatedo.
Prerequisites: PE 142+, PE 143+, PE 144+ and/or equivalent proficiency level
PE 146+ Beginning Aikido (1 Credit Hour)
Course is designed to introduce the fundamental dynamics of Aikido principle. It contains the fundamental skills in body dynamics, body movements, safety landing, defensive pattern drills, and overall understanding of Aikido as a classical art form. Course provide comprehensive information on the philosophical and aesthetic aspects of Aikido.
PE 147+ Intermediate Aikido (1 Credit Hour)
Course is designed to introduce the intermediate level of Aikido dynamics. It contains the basics of fundamental skills in body dynamics, body movements, safety landing, intermediate level of defensive pattern drills, and overall understanding of Aikido as a classical art form.
Prerequisites: PE 146+
PE 148+ Advanced Aikido (1 Credit Hour)
Course is designed to introduce the advanced level of Aikido dynamics. It contains training in advanced skills in body dynamics, body movements, defensive pattern drills, and overall understanding of Aikido theory and application as a classical art form.
Prerequisites: PE 147+
PE 149+ Theory of Advanced Aikido (1 Credit Hour)
This course is designed to provide the theoretical framework of Aikido that embodies the mental and physical dynamics of the martial arts discipline of Aikido.
Prerequisites: PE 146+, PE 147+, and PE 148+
PE 150+ Beginning Judo (1 Credit Hour)
An introduction to Judo including the techniques of throws, holdings, lockings, and pinnings. Philosophy and cultural aspects of Sport Judo are also covered.
PE 151+ Intermediate Judo (1 Credit Hour)
An intermediate course in Sport Judo covering intermediate skills and strategies.
Prerequisites: PE 150+
PE 171+ Physical Conditioning (1 Credit Hour)
This course addresses the basic principles of progressive weight training.  Objectives of the course include knowledge of various weight-training systems, proper use of weight-training equipment, and effective record-keeping to monitor individual progress.
PE 174+ Aerobics I (1-2 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to introduce the student to a complete physical fitness program that strengthens the heart and lungs, and tones up the muscles.
PE 175+ Zumba (1 Credit Hour)
Zumba is a Latin inspired, dance-fitness class that incorporates Latin and International music with dance movements.  It is a high calorie-burning fitness class that features fast and slow rhythms.  The student will participate in instructor led routines.  This class will include discussion of Zumba's history and basic four rhythms.  No dance experience necessary.
PE 176+ Pilates (1 Credit Hour)
Students will understand the basic principles of Pilates and will be able to demonstrate the ability of performing beginning and intermediate Pilates exercises with correct form and technique.
PE 196+ Topics in Health and Physical Education (1-3 Credit Hours)
A variety of new and innovative courses in lifetime physical activities are offered such as advanced theory class in martial arts, advanced Iaido, self defense seminar, yoga, cross country skiing, yacht racing, racquetball, nautilus, swim conditioning, water safety instructor, scuba and aerobic dance.
PE 497/597 Topics in Health and Physical Education (1-3 Credit Hours)
This course provides an opportunity for in-depth study of selected topics in health and physical education.
Prerequisites: junior standing and approval of program advisor
PE 597 Topics in Health and Physical Education (1-3 Credit Hours)
This course provides an opportunity for in-depth study of selected topics in health and physical education.
Prerequisites: approval of program advisor
Search catalog
