Graduate Courses
ARAB 111F Beginning Arabic (6 Credit Hours)
This is an introductory class to Modern Standard Arabic and Middle Eastern Culture. Students are expected to reach intermediate low to intermediate mid-level. The Arabic alphabet and sounds are introduced as well as simple language in context reflecting the authentic cultural nuances dealing with simple topics ranging from family, school and hobbies. No prior knowledge is required.
ARAB 195 Topics (1-6 Credit Hours)
Special topics in Arabic.
ARAB 212 Intermediate Arabic (6 Credit Hours)
The class is a continuous sequence of ARAB 111F or an equivalent class. The students are expected to reach intermediate high level. The class focuses on expanding the topics of communication the students developed in the introductory class. Modern standard and Levantine Arabic will be the means of communication in class and the student will be exposed to practical grammar, authentic media and texts.  The students will produce culture through role plays and group work simulations and recognize the different registers in the targeted culture through paying attention to sociolinguistic variations.
ARAB 295 Topics (1-6 Credit Hours)
A topics course in Arabic, with topics announced prior to the semester in which they are offered.
ARAB 311 Advanced Arabic Language and Culture I (3 Credit Hours)
The purpose of the class is to reinforce the vocabulary and grammar introduced in ARAB 111F and ARAB 212 through activating the learned materials and pushing the students to the advanced level. The language of interaction will be Levantine and Standard Arabic, which students will be able to manipulate to the specific language situations as in the countries this deglosic phenomenon exists.  In addition to the grammar and vocabulary introduced in the textbook, the class will incorporate an extensive authentic reading component and a variety of Arabic contemporary media to reflect the linguistic and cultural aspects of the Middle East.
Prerequisites: ARAB 212
ARAB 312 Advanced Arabic Language and Culture II (3 Credit Hours)
The class is a continuous sequence of ARAB 311 or an equivalent class. Students are expected to reach advanced low level and explore the Middle Eastern cultures through the language spoken there. Levantine and Standard Arabic are the only means of communication in this class. The class incorporates a high load of writing to express students' ideas relating to a wide variety of Middle Eastern topics and current events, which will be introduced through weekly readings and authentic media. This is a crucial class for students planning to travel to the Middle East, who want to explore the Arab world first hand.
Prerequisites: ARAB 311
ARAB 395 Topics in Arabic (1-6 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics for elective credit.  These courses will appear in the course schedule booklet and will be more fully described in a booklet distributed to academic advisors.
Prerequisites: ARAB 212 or equivalent
ARAB 495 Topics in Arabic (1-6 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics for elective credit. These courses will appear in the course schedule and will be more fully described in a booklet distributed to academic advisors.
Prerequisites: ARAB 212 or equivalent
No Graduate courses found.
