Policies and Student Responsibilities
Student Conduct and Academic Integrity
The ODU Honor Council promotes academic integrity among ODU students and provides information on the definitions of cheating and plagiarism. Reports of academic dishonesty and conduct violations are handled by the Office of Student Conduct & Academic Integrity .
ODU, like all universities, expects you to do your own work. The ODU Libraries have created a checklist on how to avoid plagiarism .
Honor Pledge
I pledge to support the honor system of Old Dominion University. I will refrain from any form of academic dishonesty or deception, such as cheating or plagiarism. I am aware that as a member of the academic community it is my responsibility to turn in all suspected violations of the Honor Code. I will report to a hearing if summoned.
Honor Code
We, the students of Old Dominion University, aspire to be honest and forthright in our academic endeavors. Therefore, we will practice honesty and integrity and be guided by the tenets of the Monarch Creed. We will meet the challenges to be beyond reproach in our actions and our words. We will conduct ourselves in a manner that commands the dignity and respect that we also give to others.
Monarch Creed
As a member of the Old Dominion University Community, I will:
Make personal and academic integrity fundamental in all my endeavors.
Offer service to the University and the community.
Nurture a climate of care, concern, and civility to others.
Accept responsibility for all my actions.
Respect the dignity, rights, and property of all people.
Commit to the ongoing pursuit of intellectual and personal development.
Heighten my awareness of individual and cultural similarities and differences.
Attendance Expectations for Courses at Partner Locations
Students are expected to attend every class unless it is absolutely necessary to miss. Professors may use their own discretion as to whether they will require students to complete an attendance sheet or if they will call roll. Attendance sheets, if required, may be found in each extended classroom. After the sheet has been circulated to all course attendees, site staff will collect and forward completed attendance sheets to the professor.
Classroom/Online Etiquette
Engaging in disruptive behavior in the classroom, in person or online, is a violation of the Honor Code. This guidance is especially relevant to students participating in ODUGlobal courses by using equipment at one of our partner's locations.
As an online student, you are enrolled in a course in which the instructor is not physically present. As a result, there may be a different atmosphere from the more traditional classrooms. The atmosphere, however, should be one in which all students have an opportunity to listen, learn, and participate.
Click here for specific expectations
Inclement Weather
All our partners should have an Inclement Weather Policy in place for students taking on-site classes. We understand that inclement weather or unforeseeable events such as flooding, power outages, etc., can cause a partner to cancel classes, operate on a delayed schedule, or close a particular location/facility for a time. Normally, our ODU offices will follow the partner's closure schedule.
If you attend your online class by using a facility or resource from one of our partners, and that partner decides to temporarily suspend operations or follow a delayed schedule, due to unforeseeable events, then you should assume that altered schedule applies to you as well. Contact your instructor as soon as possible if you cannot attend class because a partner's facilities are closed.
Missed Examinations Due to Class Cancellations
If an in-person, proctored exam cannot be held due to inclement weather or early closure of the facility where you had intended to take the exam, please contact your professor.
When main campus classes are cancelled due to inclement weather or other forces of nature, our partners will be notified and our staff will make every effort to notify students in a timely manner.
Registering for Disability Accommodations
If you have any accessibility needs, please contact the Office of Educational Accessibility to request accommodations.
Refund Policy
If you intend to withdraw from a class you must submit an official withdrawal with the Office of the Registrar . ODU's tuition refund policy is detailed at the Office of Finance website .
University Catalogs
Students are held individually responsible for the information contained in the University Catalog . Failure to read and comply with University regulations will not exempt students from whatever penalties they may incur.
A complete list of Old Dominion University policies, including grievance procedures, can be found in the Catalog or online at the Monarch Citizenship website .
Software Liability Disclaimer
The software available for download through the video streaming site is freely available to anyone from third party software vendors. Old Dominion University does not sell, resell, or license any of the software, and disclaims any responsibility for or liability related to the software. Any questions, complaints or claims related to the software should be directed to the appropriate vendor.
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED “AS IS” AND “ WITH ALL FAULTS.” OLD DOMINION UNIVERSITY MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND CONCERNING THE QUALITY, SAFETY OR SUITABILITY OF THE SOFTWARE, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED. FURTHER, OLD DOMINION UNIVERSITY MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES AS TO THE TRUTH, ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF ANY STATEMENTS, INFORMATION OR MATERIALS CONCERNING THE SOFTWARE THAT IS CONTAINED IN THE VENDORS’ INTERNET SITES. IN NO EVENT WILL OLD DOMINION UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE FOR ANY INDIRECT, PUNITIVE, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES HOWEVER THEY MAY ARISE EVEN IF OLD DOMINION UNIVERSITY HAS BEEN PREVIOUSLY ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.
There are inherent dangers in the use of any software available for download on the internet, and Old Dominion University cautions you to make sure that you completely understand the potential risks before downloading any software. You are solely responsible for adequate protection and backup of the data and equipment used in connection with any of the software available for download on this site. Old Dominion University will not be liable for any damages that you may suffer in connection with using, modifying or distributing any of this software.
Old Dominion University
Gornto Hall, Norfolk, VA 23529
Footer
