Entrepreneurship (ENTR)
ENTR 100 Survey of Entrepreneurship and Innovation (1 Credit Hour)
This course represents an introduction to pertinent topics related to entrepreneurship and innovation. Students will be exposed to numerous topics through guest speakers supplemented by readings and class discussion. Topics include conceptualization, creativity, patents, capitalization, venture formation, commercialization, market assessment, project management, and launch.  A multidisciplinary perspective is emphasized.
ENTR 201S Introduction to Entrepreneurship (3 Credit Hours)
This course will broaden students' views of careers and work in an increasingly global and diverse world. It provides students intellectual perspectives of entrepreneurship, and engages students in the search for knowledge regarding opportunity value and resource management. Basic analytical and critical thinking skills are developed for making reasoned judgments concerning organization creation.
ENTR 301 Fundamentals of Entrepreneurship (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed for students interested in learning about entrepreneurship. It examines entrepreneurship from different perspectives, and engages students in opportunity recognition, value creation and resource management. Basic analytical and critical thinking skills are developed for making reasoned judgments concerning venture creation. Students will learn how to improve the likelihood of success of business start-ups. Course will also be valuable for students interested in consulting with small businesses or launching new divisions in large businesses.
Prerequisites: Junior standing
ENTR 368 Entrepreneurship Internship (1-3 Credit Hours)
Students complete an entrepreneurial project or assignment for a business, non-profit agency, or other organization. Students should work 50 hours for each credit and complete course assignments integrating coursework and entrepreneurial experiences.
Prerequisites: ENTR 201S and approval of the program coordinator and Strome Entrepreneurial Center director
ENTR 410 Managing Small and Family Businesses (3 Credit Hours)
This course investigates the risks and challenges of small businesses with particular emphasis on family businesses. It focuses on knowledge necessary to support the continuity of such businesses. Topics may include: the entrepreneurial life, types of small businesses, getting started, financing and ownership, professionalizing and growth, and change, adaptation, and innovation to stay in business.
Prerequisites: MGMT 325 , ENTR 201S , and ENTR 301
ENTR 450 Innovation Project (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides students with a unique cross-disciplinary, team-based course experience in the area of innovation. The focal point will be a real-life innovation problem sponsored by a company (or organization) on which students will provide presentations and a final report. The course is directed through ODU’s Strome Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation.
Prerequisites: junior or senior standing
ENTR 476/576 Social Entrepreneurship (3 Credit Hours)
The class draws students from all disciplines to collaborate with each other, faculty and community members as they co-design project-based solutions to pertinent social issues. Topics related to social entrepreneurship vary each year. Guided by distinguished faculty, students analyze their topic through in-depth classroom and field research, readings and off-campus trips.
Prerequisites: ENTR 201S or PAS 300
ENTR 477/577 Design Thinking (3 Credit Hours)
Design thinking is a human-centered approach to innovation that uses design methods and tools to integrate the needs of people and organizations, the opportunities of technology, and the requirements for personal, organizational, and business success. The design thinking course introduces students to a robust process for understanding problems, ideation, innovation, and entrepreneurship. This course is facilitated using workshops where students will work in project teams in a design thinking innovation challenge.
Prerequisites: ENTR 201S
ENTR 490 Entrepreneurship Capstone (3 Credit Hours)
The Entrepreneurship Capstone emphasizes practicing entrepreneurship through experiential learning, focusing on start-up activities. Drawing on a broad range of business disciplines, including Marketing, Management, Finance, and Accounting, students identify an opportunity and develop an industry analysis, marketing and finance plans, and a business pitch they present to investors and serial entrepreneurs.
Prerequisites: ENTR 301 , MKTG 311 , and Senior Standing
ENTR 494 Entrepreneurship Project in Management (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to help students enhance their personal and professional development through innovation guided by faculty members and professionals. It offers students an opportunity to integrate disciplinary theory and knowledge through developing a nonprofit program, product, business, or other initiative. The real-world experiences that entrepreneurships provide will help students understand how academic knowledge leads to transformations, innovations, and solutions to different types of problems. The course can be delivered either as an independent project for individual students or as group projects similar to those sometimes offered in topics courses.
Prerequisites: ENTR 201S or MGMT 426
ENTR 498 Tutorial Work in Special Topics in Entrepreneurship (3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor. The study should lead to presentation of a paper at a conference or publication as appropriate.
Prerequisites: ENTR 201S and approval of the program coordinator
International Business (INBU)
INBU 367 Cooperative Education (1-3 Credit Hours)
May be repeated for credit.  Supervised experience in the international business work place requiring written statement of objectives and evaluation of experience.  Pass/fail grading only.
Prerequisites: Permission of IB coordinator and Career Development Services, and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
INBU 368 Internship in International Business (1-3 Credit Hours)
Supervised experience in the international business work place requiring written statement of objectives and evaluation of experience.  Pass/fail grading only.
Prerequisites: Permission of IB coordinator and Career Development Services, and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
INBU 431 Doing Business in Europe (3 Credit Hours)
A survey course to provide an overview of the contemporary business environment in Europe, with a focus on the European Union.  Topics will include an examination of the social, political, and economic forces which affect business in Europe.
Prerequisites: MGMT 325 , FIN 323 , and MKTG 311 or permission of the instructor, and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
INBU 432 Doing Business in Latin America (3 Credit Hours)
A survey  to provide an overview of the contemporary business environment in Latin America.  Topics will include an examination of the social, political and economic forces which affect business in Latin America.
Prerequisites: MGMT 325 , FIN 323 , and MKTG 311 or permission of the instructor, and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
INBU 433 Doing Business in Asia (3 Credit Hours)
An analysis of business practices in Asia.  Emphasis will be on business, government relations, business strategy, structure, organizational processes, and human resource management.
Prerequisites: MGMT 325 , FIN 323 , and MKTG 311 or permission of the instructor, and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
INBU 434 International Trade Field Study (3 Credit Hours)
An applied field research study to develop an export trade plan which involves market analysis, risk analysis, financing and distribution decisions in overseas markets.
Prerequisites: ECON 450 , MKTG 411 , FIN 435 or MGMT 361 , or permission of the instructor, and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
INBU 436 International Business Law (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the sources of international business law, the relationship between such law and the U.S. legal system, the choice of law in international business disputes, the special issues that arise when doing business with foreign governments, the law governing international sales and the shipment of goods, and international intellectual property protection. In addition, the relationships between law and culture involved in international business transactions will be examined.
Prerequisites: WCS 350 and a declared major in the university or permission of the Dean’s Office
INBU 437 International Human Resource Management (3 Credit Hours)
International HRM focuses on the management of human resources in an international context.  The course will focus on policies, programs and practice characteristics of organizational efforts to manage human assets worldwide, including an overview of cross-national team dynamics and communication systems, leadership techniques, and national employment laws.  It will also explore the critical impact that these policies have on the success of firms in doing business abroad.
Prerequisites: MGMT 325 (or equivalent) or permission of the instructor, and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
INBU 438 Globalization and International Trade (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides an economic overview of international trade and the theories that support globalization and international trade policies. The course introduces students to the global value chain and its stakeholders, with an emphasis on costs, transportation, infrastructure, and technology. Students will examine supply chain management processes that organizations use to successfully manage import and export operations.
Prerequisites: ECON 201S and ECON 202S , and a declared major in the university or permission of the Dean’s office
INBU 450 Global Business (3 Credit Hours)
Lecture, discussion and case studies.  A capstone course to integrate and apply the theories and concepts learned in required international business courses to the operations of international business organizations.
Prerequisites: ECON 450 , MKTG 411 , FIN 435 , or permission of the instructor, and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
INBU 463 International Business Seminar Abroad (3 Credit Hours)
A study tour abroad arranged in cooperation with a foreign university, including lectures on international business topics and visits to international firms and economic/business organizations.  Written work required.
Prerequisites: a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
INBU 495 Topics in International Business (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics, the title of which will appear in the course schedule.
Prerequisites: permission of the IB coordinator, and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
INBU 496 Topics in International Business (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics, the title of which will appear in the course schedule.
Prerequisites: permission of the IB coordinator, and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
INBU 497 Independent Study in International Business (1-3 Credit Hours)
Affords students the opportunity to undertake independent study under the direction of a faculty member.
Prerequisites: permission of the department
Management (MGMT)
MGMT 325 Contemporary Organizations and Management (3 Credit Hours)
The fundamentals of the managerial process (planning, organizing, leading and controlling) are considered in the context of 21st century organizations. Topics are almost evenly split between macro and micro perspectives
Prerequisites: A declared major in the University or an intended major in the Strome College of Business or permission of the Dean's Office of the Strome College, AND Junior Standing
MGMT 327 Business Communication (3 Credit Hours)
This course is an introduction to the importance and centrality of communication in business. Students will learn the application of business communication principles by working both individually and collaboratively on communicating through effective business documents, presentations, professional written and oral correspondence, and use of digital media. Attention will be given to both interpersonal and group audiences, as well as formal and informal delivery.
Prerequisites: MGMT 325
MGMT 330 Organizational Behavior (3 Credit Hours)
This class examines theories and concepts pertaining to people at work. Topics include personality differences, motivation principles, high-performing work teams, and leadership development.
Prerequisites: Junior standing
Pre- or corequisite: MGMT 325
MGMT 336 International Entrepreneurship (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides students knowledge of fundamental issues and opportunities facing entrepreneurial ventures on the global stage. Students are exposed to core theories, contemporary trends, and cutting-edge research in international entrepreneurship. Students will examine what motivates entrepreneurs to seek foreign markets, and how to leverage cultural differences.  The course discusses frameworks to analyze key factors and risks involved with venturing abroad, and assessing the strategies and resources needed for international success.
Prerequisites: MGMT 325
MGMT 340 Human Resource Management (3 Credit Hours)
This class examines all issues pertaining to managing people in an organization. Topics include strategic planning for Human Resources, recruitment and selection systems, performance evaluation and development programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, and diversity management.
Pre- or corequisite: MGMT 330
MGMT 350 Employee Relations Problems and Practices (3 Credit Hours)
Examines personnel topics such as absenteeism, substance abuse, theft, gambling and counseling problem employees.  Policies and practices used by organizations to anticipate and resolve these problems are explored and evaluated.
Prerequisites: junior standing, and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
MGMT 360 Labor Management Relations (3 Credit Hours)
A contextual study of the trade union movement and its development, structure and processes.  Emphasizes the impact of union organization on management practice and effectiveness in both private and public sector organizations.
Prerequisites: MGMT 340 , and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
MGMT 361 International Business Operations (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of the environment of multinational business, foreign trade, and the operation of multinational enterprises.  Management, marketing, accounting, and financial problems unique to enterprises operating in varying economic, cultural, and political legal environments are investigated. This course includes a CAP experience.  International business majors may not take MGMT 361 for credit.
Prerequisites: FIN 323 , MKTG 311 and MGMT 325 , and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
MGMT 367 Cooperative Education (1-6 Credit Hours)
May be repeated for credit. Available for pass/fail grading only.  Student participation for credit based on the academic relevance of the work experience, criteria, and evaluative procedures as formally determined by the department and Career Development Services prior to the semester in which the work experience is to take place.
Prerequisites: MGMT 325 and approval by the department and Career Development Services, in accordance with the policy for granting credit for cooperative education programs, and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
MGMT 368 Management Internship (1-3 Credit Hours)
Approval for enrollment and allowable credits is determined by the department and the Career Development Services in the semester prior to enrollment.  Available for pass/fail grading only.  (qualifies as a CAP experience)
Prerequisites: MGMT 325 , and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
MGMT 369 Management Practicum (1-3 Credit Hours)
Approval for enrollment is determined by the Management CAP advisor and the Career Development Services in the semester prior to enrollment.  Student will participate in a relevant work setting.  (qualifies as a CAP experience)
Prerequisites: MGMT 325 , and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office; transfer students must have completed one semester at Old Dominion University
MGMT 410 Leadership in Organizations (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide students with a comprehensive understanding of leadership as a phenomenon impacting individuals, organizations, and the larger society. Major leadership theories are examined along with processes through which leadership influences various internal and external organizational factors. Leadership traits, behaviors, styles, communication, and the dynamic nature of leader-follower developments will be addressed. Methods of instruction include case studies, experiential exercises, and simulations.
Prerequisites: MGMT 325 or permission of the Dean's office
MGMT 417/517 Employment Law (3 Credit Hours)
An analysis of how the federal and state governments may regulate the employer-employee relationship.  Topics include labor relations law, equal employment opportunity law, other current statutory employment law and common law employment issues.
Prerequisites: junior standing and MGMT 325 or MGMT 602 , and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
MGMT 418 Advanced Human Resource Management: Contemporary Issues (3 Credit Hours)
An in-depth analysis of current issues and concerns within human resources management. The course will focus on specific issues and problems associated with the law and equal employment opportunity, employee selection, training and development, performance management/appraisal, and compensation.  Methods of instruction include cases, exercises and PC applications.
Prerequisites: junior standing and MGMT 325 and MGMT 340 , and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
MGMT 420 Business Development (3 Credit Hours)
Course focuses on assessing the strategies, tactics, dilemmas, processes and solutions associated with developing a new business. Emphasis is devoted to how new ventures should raise rates (sales, prices, productivity), decrease costs, promote and execute while pursuing innovation. The course explores a wide variety of actual small business case studies to illuminate the critical strategic, operational and behavioral considerations necessary to build a successful enterprise, including rollouts (duplicating a business model in multiple locations), rollups (acquiring similar businesses to accelerate growth), and franchises.
Prerequisites: MGMT 325 and ACCT 201
MGMT 424 Technology and Innovation Management (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on three core elements of managing innovation and technology in small and large organizations. First, it teaches in-depth analysis of how innovations can transform companies and industries, including who gains and loses from such developments. Second, it explains how organizations can organize to create innovations internally and externally, and how they can take advantage of opportunities while mitigating threats in technology and innovation development. Third, it discusses how firms benefit and prosper by using various methods of commercialization and protecting new technologies and innovation.
Prerequisites: MGMT 325
MGMT 426 Entrepreneurship: New Ventures Creation (3 Credit Hours)
A study of the essential elements leading to entrepreneurial and intrapreneurial success with emphasis on the creation, structure and management of new ventures.  A recommended elective for business students.
Prerequisites: ENTR 301 OR ACCT 201 , MKTG 311 , MGMT 325 , and must have senior standing
MGMT 427 Business and Society (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of the relationship between business (usually the individual firm, but occasionally a group of firms in an industry or a set of headline-makers in different industries) and society (an individual, group of people, the general public, or government entity representing the interests of this individual or group or the public).  Emphasizes stakeholders and ethics.  The course material is both philosophical and practical for executives and informative and practical for citizens.
Prerequisites: MGMT 325 , 3 hours of ACCT and 3 hours of ECON, and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
MGMT 430 Compensation Management (3 Credit Hours)
This class examines issues pertaining to developing, evaluating, and re-designing an organization's direct and indirect compensation systems. Topics include pay structure, incentive plans, benefit programs, and special cases such as executive compensation.
Prerequisites: Senior standing, MGMT 325 , a C- or higher in MGMT 340 , and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
MGMT 440 Human Resource Staffing Strategies (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines both research and practice regarding the strategic recruitment, selection, and development of top talent in organizations. Discussion topics include understanding and planning for talent needs, use of current recruitment methods and selection techniques, development of both internal and external talent pools, and the influences of external and internal changes due to competitive business environments and job design/redesign initiatives. The strategic and legal context of employment decision making is emphasized.
Prerequisites: MGMT 325 , MGMT 330 , and MGMT 340
MGMT 450 Performance Measurement and Management (3 Credit Hours)
The role of performance management (PM) systems (performance measurement, appraisal, and development) is critical to organizational and workers success. This course focuses on how an effective PM system created in alignment with an organization’s strategy, mission, values, and product or services, can attract, develop, and retain top-performers. We will discuss how PM systems are tied to reward systems and will examine the legal regulations to which an organization must adhere. Topics include performance appraisals, coaching, feedback, reward systems, and related management activities.
Prerequisites: MGMT 325 , MGMT 330 , and MGMT 340
MGMT 452/552 Negotiations and Change Management (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on negotiations and change. Students will develop analytical, interpersonal, and communication skills, with an emphasis placed on experiential learning through case studies, role playing, and simulations.
Prerequisites: MGMT 325 or permission of the Dean's Office
MGMT 460 Human Resource Analytics (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides an introduction to the use of people analytics to optimize HR processes. Students will learn about human resource analytics tools, technologies, and tasks. Topics include: modeling employee turnover, optimizing training and development, evaluating recruitment strategies, and identifying sources of pay inequity. Students will also receive training on ADP’s Workforce Now cloud-based Human Resource information system.
Prerequisites: Senior standing and MGMT 325 , MGMT 330 , and MGMT 340
MGMT 462 Comparative International Management (3 Credit Hours)
The course examines organizational structure and functioning from cross-cultural and cross-national perspectives.  Compares how management practices differ from one society to another.  Comparisons are made between the U.S., Western Europe, Japan, the USSR, China, and the Third World nations.
Prerequisites: senior standing and MGMT 325 , and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
MGMT 463/563 Management Seminar Abroad (3 Credit Hours)
A study tour abroad under the direction of a faculty member including on-site visits and management lectures designed to provide insight into differences in management practices in foreign countries.  Offered summers only and when available.
Prerequisites: permission of the chief departmental advisor, and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
MGMT 465 SHRM Learning System (3 Credit Hours)
This is a course based on the SHRM (Society for Human Resource Management) Learning System® for SHRM-CP/SHRM-SCP. Comprised of comprehensive learning modules teaching the SHRM Body of Applied Skills and Knowledge™ (SHRM BASK™), and advanced online multimedia resources, these study materials streamline study time, accelerate learning and build confidence for passing the SHRM-CP/SHRM-SCP exam. The course tuition includes all books, including one year access to the SHRM online learning resources, but does not include registration for the SHRM-CP/SHRM-SCP examinations.
Prerequisites: MGMT 325 , MGMT 330 , and MGMT 340
MGMT 485W Business Policy and Strategy (3 Credit Hours)
Strategic management addresses the concerns of the high level executive or general manager, who must use a perspective that is qualitatively different from that of the lower-level functional manager or operations manager.  Strategic decisions cut across functional lines.  Whereas other courses focus on competency at a functional level (Are we doing things right?), this course deals with the overall effectiveness of the total organization (Are we doing the right things?).  This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C ; senior standing, FIN 323 , MGMT 325 , MKTG 311 , and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
MGMT 490 Management Consulting (3 Credit Hours)
An exploration of the consulting industry and its role in driving improvements across various types of organizations. Students will learn problem-solving frameworks used to direct decision making as well as real-world communication and project management skills.
Pre- or corequisite: MGMT 485W
MGMT 495/595 Selected Topics in Management (3 Credit Hours)
Designed to provide advanced students in management an opportunity to study administration in highly specialized areas under the guidance of a faculty member.
Prerequisites: permission of the chief departmental advisor/graduate program director
MGMT 497 Independent Study in Management (3 Credit Hours)
Designed to provide advanced students in management an opportunity for independent study of selected areas under the guidance of a faculty member.
Prerequisites: permission of the chief departmental advisor, and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
Search catalog
