Graduate Courses
CHIN 111F Beginning Chinese (6 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on the fundamental elements of the Chinese language within a cultural context. Emphasis is placed on building a foundation of basic listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills. The course includes Chinese Pinyin phonetic system, character formation, basic sentence structures, and Chinese culture and cultural activities. Students are expected to comprehend and respond to essential topics in Chinese and demonstrate their cultural awareness.
CHIN 212 Intermediate Chinese (6 Credit Hours)
This course continues to focus on the fundamental elements of the Chinese language within a cultural context. Emphasis is placed on the development of basic listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills. The course includes Chinese basic sentence patterns and real-life topics on Chinese cultural activities. Students are expected to comprehend and respond with grammatical accuracy to spoken and simple written Chinese and demonstrate their cultural awareness.
Prerequisites: CHIN 111F
CHIN 295 Topics in Chinese (1-3 Credit Hours)
Study of selected topics designed to permit small groups of qualified students to work on subjects of mutual interest.
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of instructor
CHIN 311 Advanced Chinese Language and Culture I (3 Credit Hours)
This course takes students to an advanced level of communicative competence and language social interaction. The course includes more complex sentence patterns and Chinese cultural activities. Students learn to respond to topics of interest to college-age students, such as campus life, career planning, and Chinese cultural traditions. Students are exposed to the speech of native speakers in real cultural situations and develop sensitivity to communicative strategies and cultural competency.
Prerequisites: CHIN 212
CHIN 312 Advanced Chinese Language and Culture II (3 Credit Hours)
This course takes students to a higher level of communicative competence and language social interaction. The course gradually introduces more formal speech and written-style language in the real cultural context. The course trains students to interpret textual and cultural meanings and to express their opinions and cultural understanding by using connected paragraph length discourse.
Prerequisites: CHIN 311
CHIN 395 Topics in Chinese (1-3 Credit Hours)
Selected topics, genres, authors and/or literary, cultural, sociopolitical, or historical movements in the Chinese-speaking world. May be repeated for credit if the topic is different.
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
CHIN 396 Topics in Chinese (1-3 Credit Hours)
Seminars engage students in in-depth study of a specified topic through readings, research and oral and written student reports. Special attention is paid to theoretical and bibliographic issues. Topics vary according to the areas of expertise and professional interests of departmental faculty. May be repeated if topics are different.
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
CHIN 495 Topics in Chinese (3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics designed to permit small groups of qualified students to work on subjects of mutual interest which, due to their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly. May be repeated for credit if the topic is different.
Prerequisites: Senior standing or permission of the instructor
No Graduate courses found.
