Asian Studies Minor
Minor in Chinese Studies
The Chinese Studies minor consists of 12 credit hours of 300- and 400-level courses that combine the study of language and culture.  For a more complete description and requirements, please refer to the minors section in the Department of World Languages and Cultures .
Minor in Japanese
The Japanese minor consists of 12 credit hours of 300- and 400-level courses that combine the study of language and culture. For a more complete description and requirements, please refer to the minors section in the Department of World Languages and Cultures .
Major in Japanese
Please refer to the majors section in the Department of World Languages and Cultures .
BA or BS to MBA (Master of Business Administration) Linked Program
The linked BA/MBA or BS/MBA program is an early entry to the MBA program of study.  The early-entry program is designed for well qualified non-business undergraduate ODU students to start their MBA program prior to completing their undergraduate degree.  Well qualified non-business undergraduate students may take MBA-level courses as early as three semesters prior to graduation and count up to 12 graduate credits toward their undergraduate degree.  Students participating in the early-entry program must earn a minimum of 150 credit hours (120 discrete credit hours for the undergraduate degree and 30 discrete credit hours for the graduate degree).  Early-entry program students should carefully consider their undergraduate degree program requirements when planning their course of study.  Students in the early-entry program work in close consultation with the MBA Program Office and should refer to information in the Strome College of Business section in the graduate catalog to develop an individualized plan of study based on the required coursework.
BA or BS to MPA (Master of Public Administration) Linked Program
The linked BA/MPA or BS/MPA program provides qualified Old Dominion University undergraduate students with the opportunity to earn a master's degree in public administration while taking credits in the MPA program as an undergraduate student.  The program is designed for highly motivated students with the desire to immediately continue their education after the bachelor's degree.  The program is especially relevant to individuals seeking to work (or currently working) in the public or non-profit sectors, but is suitable for students from any undergraduate major.  Graduate courses may be taken during the fall and spring semester of the student's senior undergraduate year.  Up to 12 graduate credits can count toward both the undergraduate and graduate degree and can meet upper-level General Education requirements. After receiving the undergraduate degree, a student will continue with the MPA program, taking MPA courses until completing the required 39 credit hours. Students in the linked program must earn a minimum of 150 credit hours (120 discrete credit hours for the undergraduate degree and 30 discrete credit hours for the graduate degree).
Requirements for admission to the graduate program can be found in the School of Public Service section of the Graduate Catalog .  For additional information, please contact the School of Public Service in the Strome College of Business.
Courses
Asian Studies (ASIA)
ASIA 332 South Asia Since Independence (3 Credit Hours)
This is a comparative study of the main political, economic and social developments in the major countries of South Asia.  Themes will include democratization, problems of economic development, the role of caste and religion, the causes of intrastate conflict and interstate conflict and the influence of global forces on the region.
Prerequisites: HIST 100H or HIST 101H or HIST 102H or HIST 103H or HIST 104H or HIST 105H or HIST 126H or HIST 127H or HIST 205H
ASIA 336 The Emergence of New China (3 Credit Hours)
The history of China covering late Imperial China, the impact of Western imperialism, the Republican Period, and the establishment of the People's Republic.
Prerequisites: HIST 100H or HIST 101H or HIST 102H or HIST 103H or HIST 104H or HIST 105H or HIST 126H or HIST 127H or HIST 205H
ASIA 337 Japan's Era of Transformation (3 Credit Hours)
The history of Japan since 1800.  The decline of the Tokugawa Shogunate, modern national building in the Meiji period, domestic conflicts and war in the twentieth century, and the roots of Japan's economic prominence today.
Prerequisites: HIST 100H or HIST 101H or HIST 102H or HIST 103H or HIST 104H or HIST 105H or HIST 126H or HIST 127H or HIST 205H
ASIA 338W Politics of East Asia (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed for intermediate students who are interested in the theoretical and systematic study of world politics.  The course first introduces students to several major theoretical approaches to the study of world politics and then applies these approaches to a number of major, contemporary issues--ranging from war and peace, conflict and cooperation, development and underdevelopment to global and national interests.  This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C , six hours in human behavior, and junior standing or permission of the instructor
ASIA 353 Asian Religions (3 Credit Hours)
This course introduces students to several key religious traditions originating in Asia, such as: Hindu traditions in India; Confucianism, Daoism, and popular religion in China, Buddhism and Shinto in Japan; and Buddhist traditions of China, Tibet, and Mongolia. Students will read and analyze primary sources in English translation. By examining artifacts from literature, art, and poetry, students will also learn about cultural history. Throughout the course, we will be employing hermeneutical methods in the field of religions studies, such as methods of comparisons.
Prerequisites: Junior standing and three semester hours in philosophy, or permission of the instructor
ASIA 360 Asian Art (3 Credit Hours)
An introduction to the architecture, sculpture, calligraphy, pottery, ink, painting, miniature painting, and gardens of India, China, and Japan.  Emphasis will be placed on the connections among the cultures: Buddhism and pilgrimage, the importance of the scholar painters, the role of trade routes and the emergence of native writing.
Prerequisites: A grade of C or higher in ENGL 110C ; a grade of C or higher in ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C ; ARTH 121A or ARTH 150 or ARTH 203 or ARTH 204 or ARTH 210 or ARTH 230 or permission of instructor
ASIA 395 Topics in Asian Studies (3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics designed for nonmajors or for elective credit within a major.  These courses will appear in the course schedule and will be more fully described in information distributed to academic advisors.
Prerequisites: HIST 101H or permission of the instructor
ASIA 435 Chinese Politics (3 Credit Hours)
A study of origins of the Chinese revolution; development and functions of the Chinese Communist Party; government institutions; the defense establishment; evolution of foreign policy; and post-Mao political and economic reforms.
Prerequisites: POLS 100S or POLS 102S or permission of the instructor
ASIA 461W Asian Studies Capstone Seminar (3 Credit Hours)
As a required course for the Asian Studies major, the course helps students synthesize the knowledge they have learned from the undergraduate courses, write a capstone research paper and present the paper in class.  This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: HIST 101H , a grade of C or better in ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C , and junior standing
ASIA 495/595 Topics in Asian Studies (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed for small groups of qualified students to conduct advanced study of selected topics on Asian Studies, topics which may not be taught in regularly scheduled classes.  The description of the course for each offering will appear in the course schedule booklet that is distributed to each advisor.
Prerequisites: Appropriate survey source or permission of the instructor
Search catalog
