No Undergraduate courses found.
HUM 595 Topics in Humanities (3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected Humanities topics to be specified in the class schedule each semester. May be repeated for credit as topics vary.
HUM 597 Tutorial Work in Humanities (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent research on a Humanities topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor. Program director approval required.
HUM 601 Introduction to the Humanities (3 Credit Hours)
This class introduces students to the study of the humanities with a focus on the enduring questions and ideas of human history.  These include questions of culture, reality, society, power, truth, communication, and mediation.  Students address these questions and ideas by engaging with some of the great works of social theory from the twentieth century.
HUM 602 Critical Methods in Humanities (3 Credit Hours)
This class instructs students in various theoretical and methodological approaches for conducting research within the humanistic disciplines.   Students will become familiar with literary theory, critical/cultural studies, historical methods, qualitative social scientific approaches, and visual studies, as well as the conduct of research across disciplinary boundaries.
HUM 603 Strategic Professional Development Pro-Seminar (3 Credit Hours)
This seminar will guide students pursuing academic or non-academic professions to prepare and to build a professional development strategy for various careers using their Humanities degree.
HUM 668 Internship (3 Credit Hours)
This course allows graduate students in Humanities to pursue a structured work experience in a field relevant to a student's course of study.  Student will work with a supervisor at the work site and a faculty advisor in Humanities.  Requirements include a formal essay connected to the experience, portfolio, and satisfactory evaluation by the supervisor.  Permission of Humanities director required.  Pass/fail grading only.
HUM 693 Capstone Project (3 Credit Hours)
Option for students who do not want to pursue a traditional thesis. Individual projects must be approved by the program director. The capstone project must include a scholarly paper, but the 'project' component can include creative works, art installations, film and video, interactive and born-digital works, as well as other forms of community engagement. Projects are developed with help of supervisor.
Prerequisites: HUM 601 , HUM 602 , HUM 603 , HUM 698 , HUM 704 , and program director approval required
HUM 696 Topics in Humanities (3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected Humanities topics to be specified in the class schedule each semester. May be repeated for credit as topics vary.
HUM 697 Tutorial Work in Humanities (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent research on a Humanities topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor. Program director approval required.
HUM 698 Capstone Project and Thesis Preparation Seminar (3 Credit Hours)
A graduate writing seminar dedicated to workshopping and developing and finalizing students' required long-term creative and research projects.
HUM 699 Thesis (1-6 Credit Hours)
Course requirement for thesis option.
HUM 704 Technology and the Humanities (3 Credit Hours)
A seminar providing foundations for and experience in the critical examination of technologies and their human and social impact. Topics will vary and may include AI, innovation, social media, robotics, healthcare, gaming, art, and music.
HUM 795 Topics in Humanities (3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected Humanities topics to be specified in the class schedule each semester. May be repeated for credit as topics vary.
HUM 796 Topics in Humanities (3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected Humanities topics to be specified in the class schedule each semester. May be repeated for credit as topics vary.
HUM 797 Tutorial Work in Humanities (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent research on a Humanities topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor. Program director approval required.
HUM 895 Topics in Humanities (3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected Humanities topics to be specified in the class schedule each semester. May be repeated for credit as topics vary.
HUM 896 Topics in Humanities (3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected Humanities topics to be specified in the class schedule each semester. May be repeated for credit as topics vary.
HUM 897 Tutorial Work in Humanities (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent research on a Humanities topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor. Program director approval required.
HUM 999 Doctoral Graduate Credit (1 Credit Hour)
This course is a pass/fail course doctoral students may take to maintain active status after successfully passing the candidacy examination.  All doctoral students are required to be registered for at least one graduate credit hour every semester until their graduation.
Search catalog
