Option #2: Self-Paced Online Classes
Offered Monthly
At your own pace. Students have 6 months to complete the program.
Online, self paced. Students are assigned a personal mentor to help guide them.
Register for March 01, 2025 to September 01, 2025
Eligible for ODU Undergraduate Credit
Students who are admitted and enrolled in an ODU undergraduate degree program are eligible for (8) 300-level CPD elective credits upon completion of this program.
Explore CPD Elective Credits Program
Why Continuing Education for Paralegal Certificate?
Challenging Content: You will learn legal processes, court structure, interviewing, investigation, document preparation, file maintenance, correspondence, research, writing and analysis, as well as substantive topics of law, such as Tort Law, Contract Law and Civil Procedures. Our students also learn LexisNexis and Westlaw, two powerhouses in legal research.
Real World Instructors: Our instructors are all practicing attorneys or judges, which means not only do they hold advanced degrees, but they have real world experience and show you how to put theory into practice.
Career Support: Our students receive instruction on preparing their resume, fine tuning job search methods and developing interview skills. Additionally, program graduates can request their resume to be posted on the ODU Paralegal Graduate site, and Norfolk area law firms are notified of the availability of new certificate holders upon program completion.
Image
Benefits for Participants
Job Prospects
The paralegal profession continues to be among the fastest growing of any profession in the nation. The following is an excerpt from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics on the employment outlook in the paralegal profession:
"Employment of paralegals and legal assistants is projected to grow 10 percent from 2019 to 2029, much faster than the average for all occupations.
As law firms try to increase the efficiency of legal services and reduce their costs, they are expected to hire more paralegals and legal assistants. In these cases, paralegals and legal assistants can take on a "hybrid" role within the firm, performing not only traditional paralegal duties but also some of the tasks previously assigned to legal secretaries or other legal support workers.
Law firms also are attempting to reduce billing costs as clients push for less expensive legal services. Due to their lower billing rates to clients, paralegals can be a less costly alternative to lawyers , performing a wide variety of tasks once done by entry-level lawyers. This should cause an increase in demand for paralegals and legal assistants.
Although law firms will continue to be the largest employers of paralegals, many large corporations are increasing their in-house legal departments to cut costs. For many companies, the high cost of outside counsel makes it more economical to have an in-house legal department. This will lead to an increase in the demand for legal workers in a variety of settings, such as finance and insurance firms, consulting firms, and healthcare providers.
Due to the rise of electronic discovery, formally trained paralegals with strong computer and database management skills should have the best job prospects."
Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Department of Labor, Occupational Outlook Handbook, Paralegals and Legal Assistants, at https://www.bls.gov/ooh/legal/paralegals-and-legal-assistants.htm (visited February 18, 2021).
Compensation
To prepare for a career as a paralegal, an individual may choose to attend a four-year bachelor's degree program, a two-year associate's degree program or a paralegal certificate program. It may surprise you to learn that graduates of paralegal certificate programs are compensated at a significantly higher rate than graduates of other forms of paralegal education. Why? Because certificate programs have the advantage of focusing the entire education experience on paralegal skills. Certificate programs offer the highest quality of paralegal education at an affordable cost.
Of course, earnings of paralegals vary greatly, depending on education, training, experience, the type and size of employer and the geographic location of the job. The Bureau of Labor Statistics currently reports an average annual salary of $51,740 for paralegals and legal assistants, higher than the annual wage for all workers.
Sources:
U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics
Which Program Format Is Best For You?
Which program format is best for you, on-campus or online? While the skill-sets you will learn are identical, you will need to determine which delivery method is best for you. Consider the following:
Live via Zoom
In person instruction from judges and attorneys
Two evenings per week for four months
Extensive online study support
Successful graduates receive the Old Dominion University Paralegal Certificate
Good for students who prefer a more structured environment
Self-Paced Online
Go-at-your-own-pace format and enroll at anytime
Study online when it is convenient for you
Every student is assigned her or his own attorney/judge instructor
Students are provided with the instructor's email and phone number
Successful graduates receive the Old Dominion University Paralegal Certificate
Best for students who are able to be disciplined and focused
Whichever format you decide is best for you, be assured that you will develop the same skills and knowledge. Those who successfully complete the program will be awarded the Old Dominion University Paralegal Certificate.
Paralegal Speciality Certificates
In today’s ultra-competitive labor market, you need skills that will help you stand out amongst the crowd. With ODU’s convenient, self-paced legal courses, you can advance your legal career in only a matter of months.  ODU’s Paralegal Specialty Certificates provide graduates the opportunity to concentrate on high demand segments of the law that they are passionate about, such as Bankruptcy Law, Elder Law, Health Care Law, Immigration Law and more!
Complete the online programs at your own pace, with no trips to campus required.
Learn from a distinguished faculty of legal professionals.
Earn a sought-after credential backed by a major research university.
Convenient registration happens on an open-enrollment basis — no application required.
We recommend that participants in this self-paced program have a degree in Paralegal Studies, have completed their Paralegal Certificate, or have at least four years of experience as a paralegal.
Cost & Aid
Option #1: Live Zoom Class Fees
$5,670 Tuition with books included
$4,995 Tuition without books (books are approximately $500 purchased on your own)
Option #2: Self-Paced Online Classes Fees
$7,670 Tuition with books included
$6,995 Tuition without books (books are approximately $750 purchased on your own)
Financial Aid
Continuing Education can accept payments for courses in several different forms. ODU's helpful staff can assist you in determining if you might qualify for any number of various funding options that could assist you with non-credit continuing educational opportunities to improve your marketability and advance your career.
Explore Continuing Education Financial Aid
Refund Policy
To withdraw from the Paralegal course, you must send a request in writing to cepd@odu.edu (7) days prior the start date of the course. Failure to attend a course does not constitute withdrawal. Course registration fees, less a $100.00 processing fee will be refunded back to your original form of payment. There are no refunds once the class has begun. Late withdrawals of six (6) days or less before the class begins, will result in the student being charged the $100.00 processing fee, as well as charges for books and/or other course material fees.
Old Dominion University
Gornto Hall, Norfolk, VA 23529
Footer
