Graduate Courses
ARTE 301 Foundations of Art Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course introduces historical, philosophical, and sociological foundations and contemporary issues of American public education, including the history and philosophies of art in education, best practice methods, and learning theories in PreK-12 schools, cultural institutions, and museum settings. Virginia Standards of Learning, National Core Arts Standards for Art, and an introduction to teaching for the understanding of visual art, visual inquiry, lesson planning, and assessment will be addressed. All students will complete a 30-hour observation experience in an appropriate PreK-12 setting specific to art education. Students are required to independently register for and take the VCLA.
Prerequisites: ENGL 110C and ENGL 211C or ENGL 231C with a grade of C or better; Art education majors only and sophomore standing; must successfully pass the background check process as outlined on the College of Education and Professional Studies' website
ARTE 305 Elementary Art Education Methods and Classroom Management (3 Credit Hours)
This course will attend to issues of children’s art making and how the visual arts can empower learning in a variety of settings. Through site visitations students will broaden their understanding of age-appropriate pedagogical practices while also exploring various artmaking materials and classroom management strategies. Through research and thought provoking hands-on activities students will develop critical thinking skills and increase their awareness of content knowledge. Students will begin work on developing their portfolios. Thirty hour practicum in an elementary setting required. (Offered spring semester; to be taken sophomore year.)
Prerequisites: ARTE 301 with a grade of C or better; VCLA score on file and Criminal Background Check completed; open to art education majors only
ARTE 306 Secondary Art Education Methods and Classroom Management (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to address theoretical and practical aspects of curriculum development and classroom management with an emphasis on honoring diversity and advocating for equity in secondary art education learning environments.  Pedagogy will focus on implementing studio based lessons, including current approaches to digital technology. Through research and site visits students will broaden their understanding of age-appropriate pedagogical practices. Students will critically reflect on their development as an educator while understanding their role as an advocate for the field of art education. Work on portfolios is continued. Thirty hour practicum in a secondary setting required. (Offered fall semester; to be taken junior year.)
Prerequisites: ARTE 301 and ARTE 305 , both with a grade of C or better; a passing score on the VCLA; PRAXIS Art Content (5134) score must be on file
ARTE 411 Curriculum and Instruction in Art Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to prepare students for their upcoming capstone and student teaching internship from the inception of an idea to writing units of instruction for K-12 classrooms and museum and cultural institution settings. Students will use foundational knowledge to design comprehensive curriculum including relevant assessments. Students will review current topics and practice through reading, research and writing in the field of art education. Students will focus on dispositions of visual art educators as defined by NEAE national standards as well as the development of culturally relevant pedagogy. (Offered spring semester; to be taken junior year.)
Prerequisites: Grades of C or better in ARTE 301 , ARTE 305 , and ARTE 306 ; acceptance in the teacher preparation program; VCLA must be passed before enrollment; Praxis Art Content (5134) score must be on file; must complete the Child Abuse and Neglect, Cultural Competency, Dyslexia, First Aid/CPR/AED, and Restraint and Seclusion certifications
ARTE 480 Capstone in Art Education (3 Credit Hours)
Designed to provide advanced art education students with substantial practical experience in planning, developing, administering, and evaluating a program of visual arts education for young learners in a local museum setting for Saturday Morning Art Classes (SMAC). Students will reflect critically on their personal practice through arts-based methods and writing activities, as well as curate a final art exhibition for participants and their families. Student portfolios will include all needed components, with the exception of documentation of their student teaching or museum and cultural institutions internship. This course includes the final BFA show. (Offered fall semester; to be taken in the senior year.)
Prerequisites: Grades of C or better in ARTE 301 , ARTE 305 , ARTE 306 , and ARTE 411 ; SPED 313 ; passing score on VCLA, acceptance into the teacher preparation program, and passing score on the Praxis 2 Art content knowledge exam (Test 5134)
ARTE 485 Museum and Cultural Institutions Internship (6 Credit Hours)
Internship with educational programming and the facilitation of learning for young learners in a museum or cultural institution.  Current partners include the Virginia Museum of Contemporary Art, the Chrysler Museum of Art, and the Hermitage Museum School of Visual Arts. (Offered spring semester; to be taken in the senior year.)
