Scholarships
Do online students qualify for scholarships?
Yes! At ODUGlobal, we believe in making quality education accessible, regardless of where you are now or where you’re going. Our range of scholarships are designed to support and empower you in achieving your academic and career aspirations.
Whether you've been out of college for a while or just decided on your major, we may have a scholarship opportunity to match your goals. Deadlines vary, so check out the details and apply today!
Image
ODUGlobal Scholarships
There are a limited number of ODUGlobal scholarships available each academic year. Each online student who applies for admission by the deadline will be reviewed for these outstanding scholarship opportunities. Please note additional requirements below, if applicable.
Beyond Boundaries — Transfer Students
The Beyond Boundaries Scholarship provides up to $3,000 for the first year to high-achieving undergraduate transfer students who live outside Virginia (U.S. or international). To be considered, you must have:
a cumulative transfer GPA of at least 3.25; and
completed a minimum of 12 credits and no more than 150 cumulative credits.
Monarch Pride — Calling ODU Alumni!
Attention ODU alumni! If you earned a bachelor's degree from ODU, take the next step in your educational journey and strengthen your ODU bond through the ODUGlobal Monarch Pride Scholarship. This one-time $1,000 scholarship applies to the first semester of enrollment in an ODUGlobal master’s or doctoral degree program.
Social Good — Teachers, Counselors, and More
We applaud and lift our undergraduate students who make a positive impact on their communities, such as teachers, counselors, law enforcement professionals, and librarians. Recipients are awarded $3,000 in the first semester of enrollment. To be considered, you must:
be an online undergraduate student;
have a minimum transfer GPA of 3.25;
pursue a major in teacher education , human services , or criminal justice ; and
have completed a minimum of 12 credits and no more than 150 cumulative credits.
Future Shapers — Technology-based Programs
This scholarship supports students pursuing undergraduate degrees in technology-based industries, fostering innovation and growth. Recipients are awarded $3,000 for the first semester of enrollment. To be considered, you must:
be an online undergraduate student;
have a minimum transfer GPA of 3.25;
have completed a minimum of 12 credits and no more than 150 cumulative credits.
Healthcare Heroes — Practitioner-based Programs
This scholarship lifts students who will support others’ health by entering undergraduate practitioner-based health care programs or disciplines that promote community and global health practices. Recipients are awarded $3,000 for the first semester of enrollment. To be considered, you must:
be an online undergraduate student;
have a minimum transfer GPA of 3.25;
have completed a minimum of 12 credits and no more than 150 cumulative credits.
Virginia Innovators — Undergraduate Transfer Students
This scholarship is for online undergraduate transfer students living in Virginia. Recipients are awarded $3,000 in the first semester of enrollment. To be considered, you also must:
have a cumulative transfer GPA of 3.60 or higher;
have completed a minimum of 12 credits;
have no more than 150 cumulative credits; and
not qualify for another ODUGlobal scholarship.
Disabled Military Servicemembers and Their Families
We partner with the Military Connection Center to offer an annual scholarship to current or former service members​ disabled in the line of duty, their spouses, and their dependents.
Qualified applicants can be from any branch including the Coast Guard, National Guard, Air National Guard, and Reserves.
This scholarship requires a separate application and documentation, and has a yearly deadline.
View application instructions and form
General Information
To receive an ODUGlobal scholarship, you must be registered for class at least three days prior to the start of the semester in which the scholarship monies will be awarded. If you are eligible for multiple ODUGlobal scholarships, you will receive only the scholarship with the highest award.
You will receive notification of any scholarship you are to receive from ODUGlobal. Accepting a scholarship may impact other financial aid you receive.
Scholarship availability and criteria are subject to change.
Image
Have Questions?
We're here to help! Fill out the form below to get in touch with our enrollment team.
* Indicates a required field
