Special Education Post-Baccalaureate Endorsement Program
TBA, Graduate Program Director 122 Child Study Center
Many students who already possess an undergraduate degree enter Old Dominion University for the sole purpose of meeting the Virginia Department of Education teaching licensure standards. The special education post-baccalaureate endorsement option is available for those students who wish to complete the coursework required for licensure in special education, but have no desire to complete a master's degree program or who do not meet the master’s degree admission requirements. Individuals pursing a post-baccalaureate endorsement program must first apply for admission to Old Dominion University as a non-degree seeking graduate student; however, admission to Old Dominion University does not guarantee admission into post-baccalaureate endorsement or teacher preparation programs in the Darden College of Education and Professional Studies. Once admitted to the University, individuals must also apply for admission into a post-baccalaureate endorsement program and must meet the college’s policy for admitting students into an approved teacher education program.  The college offers four post-baccalaureate endorsement programs in special education: general curriculum K-12, adapted curriculum K-12, early childhood special education, and visual impairments prek-12.
The Post-Baccalaureate Endorsement Program offers the coursework required to satisfy the Virginia Department of Education (VDOE) special educator licensure endorsement competencies. Due to changing national accreditation standards and state licensure regulations (i.e. assessments, certifications), the programs in teacher education are under constant revision. Students are encouraged to obtain current program information from the Special Education Program website at: http://www.odu.edu/cdse/academics/sped/grad . Program completers find employment as special education teachers within the continuum of services provided for children with special needs and may also serve as key members of child study teams; they are prepared to address the educational, emotional, and physical needs of students with disabilities.
Admission
completion of an undergraduate degree in the arts and sciences (or equivalent);
admission to Old Dominion University as a non-degree seeking graduate student;
cumulative GPA of 2.80 for all college credit courses taken in the baccalaureate degree program from an accredited college/university; and,
submission of an application for admittance into the Darden College of Education and Professional Studies Teacher Post-Baccalaureate Endorsement Program.
Provisional Admittance Requirements
completion of an undergraduate degree in the arts and sciences (or equivalent);
admission to Old Dominion University as a non-degree seeking graduate student;
cumulative GPA of 2.50-2.74 for all college credit courses taken in the baccalaureate degree program from an accredited college/university; and,
submission of an application for admittance into the Darden College of Education and Professional Studies Teacher Post-Baccalaureate Endorsement Program.
Curriculum Requirements
