Music Performance Minor
BA or BS to MBA (Master of Business Administration) Linked Program
The linked BA/MBA or BS/MBA program is an early entry to the MBA program of study.  The early-entry program is designed for well qualified non-business undergraduate ODU students to start their MBA program prior to completing their undergraduate degree.  Well qualified non-business undergraduate students may take MBA-level courses as early as three semesters prior to graduation and count up to 12 graduate credits toward their undergraduate degree.  Students participating in the early-entry program must earn a minimum of 150 credit hours (120 discrete credit hours for the undergraduate degree and 30 discrete credit hours for the graduate degree).  Early-entry program students should carefully consider their undergraduate degree program requirements when planning their course of study.  Students in the early-entry program work in close consultation with the MBA Program Office and should refer to information in the Strome College of Business section in the graduate catalog to develop an individualized plan of study based on the required coursework.
BA or BS to MPA (Master of Public Administration) Linked Program
The linked BA/MPA or BS/MPA program provides qualified Old Dominion University undergraduate students with the opportunity to earn a master's degree in public administration while taking credits in the MPA program as an undergraduate student.  The program is designed for highly motivated students with the desire to immediately continue their education after the bachelor's degree.  The program is especially relevant to individuals seeking to work (or currently working) in the public or non-profit sectors, but is suitable for students from any undergraduate major.  Graduate courses may be taken during the fall and spring semester of the student's senior undergraduate year.  Up to 12 graduate credits can count toward both the undergraduate and graduate degree and can meet upper-level General Education requirements. After receiving the undergraduate degree, a student will continue with the MPA program, taking MPA courses until completing the required 39 credit hours. Students in the linked program must earn a minimum of 150 credit hours (120 discrete credit hours for the undergraduate degree and 30 discrete credit hours for the graduate degree).
Requirements for admission to the graduate program can be found in the School of Public Service section of the Graduate Catalog .  For additional information, please contact the School of Public Service in the Strome College of Business.
Courses
Music (MUSC)
MUSC 101 Beginning Piano Class (1 Credit Hour)
Introduction, practical training, and development of basic piano skills, including the playing of scales, arpeggios, chords, and simple songs; sight reading, transposition, harmonization of melodies, and improvisation.  (For music majors only)
Prerequisites: Permission of instructor
MUSC 102 Beginning Piano Class (1 Credit Hour)
Introduction, practical training, and development of basic piano skills, including the playing of scales, arpeggios, chords, and simple songs; sight reading, transposition, harmonization of melodies, and improvisation.  (For music majors only)
Prerequisites: MUSC 101 and permission of instructor
MUSC 103 Intermediate Piano Class (1 Credit Hour)
Continued practical training and development of basic piano skills.  (For music majors only)
Prerequisites: MUSC 102 or permission of the instructor
MUSC 107 Beginning Voice Class (1 Credit Hour)
Introduction, practical training, and development of basic singing skills.
Prerequisites: Music major or permission of the instructor
MUSC 113 Live Audio Engineering (3 Credit Hours)
This course covers fundamentals of live audio engineering, rudimentary acoustics, auditory perception and psychoacoustical concepts. Students will learn to assemble sound reinforcement systems for small and large ensembles and examine how sound is perceived by the human ear. Topics such as signal flow, cabling, mixing, busing and monitoring will be addressed. Sound Recording Technology majors must earn a grade of C or better to progress to MUSC 115.
Prerequisites: Bachelor of Music, with emphasis in Sound Recording Technology major, or permission of the instructor
MUSC 120 The Fundamentals of Music Theory (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed specifically for non-music majors and focuses on the fundamentals of music theory. It introduces the basics of music – such as rhythm, melody, and harmony – and may progress into intermediate topics such as chord progressions and aural skill development.
MUSC 121 Musicianship Fundamentals (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides the knowledge of and skills in music theory fundamentals necessary to prepare for upper levels of music theory. Non-music majors may take the course if there is room and with the permission of the instructor.
Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor
MUSC 126A Honors: Music in History and Culture (3 Credit Hours)
A survey of major composers and their works in the historical context of different style periods, including a discussion of the central philosophical and cultural issues of each period.  Students will be required to attend at least three musical events and turn in written critiques.
Prerequisites: Honors college students only
MUSC 130 Functional Piano Skills (1 Credit Hour)
Practical training and development of piano skills needed in the elementary, secondary choral, and private vocal studio setting. Focus will be placed on preparing for the piano barrier exam for music education majors (including technical skills, rehearsal skills, and sight reading). (For Music Education vocal/guitar/keyboard majors only.)
Pre- or corequisite: MUSC 101 , MUSC 102 , or permission of instructor
MUSC 150 Freshman Seminar for Music Students (1 Credit Hour)
This course is designed to help students make the most out of their experience as a student at ODU, create a sense of community among music students, and prepare students for the expectations of being a college student in the Diehn School of Music. Musicians' health topics, among others, will be presented to enhance student rehearsal and performance practices.
MUSC 160 Music and Ideas (1 Credit Hour)
This course is designed to cultivate a nuanced comprehension of the intellectual dimensions of music, equipping students with the analytical skills essential for critical engagement with diverse musical genres and concepts. Through the development of critical thought and the utilization of scholarly tools, students will explore intriguing questions, laying a foundation upon which they will construct additional musical knowledge and expertise during their tenure at the Diehn School of Music.
Prerequisites: Music major, music minor, or permission of instructor
MUSC 221 Music Theory 1 (2 Credit Hours)
Music Theory 1 is a foundational course and topics within this course include the basics of music notation, clefs, simple and compound meters, major and minor scales and keys signatures, modes, intervals, triads, seventh chords, inversions, Roman numerals, and an introduction to species counterpoint. This course includes discussions of the pedagogy of music fundamentals.
Corequisites: MUSC 223
MUSC 222 Music Theory 2 (2 Credit Hours)
Topics for this course include functionalizing two-part counterpoint, introduction to SATB part-writing, function theory, cadences, and connecting the tonic and dominant areas. Other topics include chordal harmonies, realizing figured bass, the submediant and mediant harmonies, motives and motivic analysis, twelve-bar blues, popular song forms/chord symbols/chord extensions/harmonic schemas, and an introduction to jazz theory.
Prerequisites: Music majors or music minors and completion of Music Theory placement test or MUSC 221 with a grade of C or higher
Corequisites: MUSC 224
MUSC 223 Aural Skills 1 (1 Credit Hour)
Aural Skills 1 introduces melodic, rhythmic, and harmonic dictation. Other topics and skills that are both introduced and developed throughout the course include sight-singing, solfege, aural recognition, and writing of various intervals and chords.
Corequisites: MUSC 221
MUSC 224 Aural Skills 2 (1 Credit Hour)
Aural Skills 2 continues to develop melodic, rhythmic, and harmonic dictation as well as sight-singing/solfege, aural recognition, and writing of various intervals and triads.
Prerequisites: MUSC 223 and music major or minor, or permission of instructor
Corequisites: MUSC 222
MUSC 264A Music in History and Culture (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to be an introduction to the appreciation and understanding of music through music listening activities and a survey of music history.  Basic principles and elements of music are discussed in relation to contexts within a variety of musical styles including classical, jazz, popular, and world music.  Regular and repeated listening is an important part of the course in addition to required concert attendance.
MUSC 266 Music in World Cultures (1 Credit Hour)
Required for music majors. Available to qualified non-majors. Exploration of music and cultures of the world in terms of function, style, genre, instruments, performers, and individual works. This course offers an exploration of the global mosaic of musical expressions.
Prerequisites: Music major, music minor, or permission of instructor
MUSC 295 Topics (1-3 Credit Hours)
Special topics.
Prerequisites: Permission of instructor
MUSC 300 Foundations of Music Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course will introduce the historical, philosophical, and sociological foundations and contemporary issues of American public education. Also included is an introduction to music education methods and learning theories as they relate to PreK-12 music education, the study of the Virginia Standards of Learning, the National Core Arts Standards for Music and an investigation into teaching for musical understanding, designing musical problems, lesson planning and assessment.  In addition, the course will include reading and writing assignments and discussion with teachers and young musicians. All students will complete a 30-hour observation experience in an appropriate PreK-12 setting specific to music education. In order to receive the required school observation placement, students must complete the ODU Teacher Education background check/clearance process prior to the beginning of this course and register for the observation placement on the Teacher Education web pages. See the advisor for more information. Students are expected independently to register for and take the Praxis Core examination or equivalent while enrolled in this course.
Prerequisites: Music majors only and sophomore standing; must successfully pass the background check process as outlined on the College of Education and Professional Studies' website
MUSC 301 Music Education: High Brass Class (1 Credit Hour)
Required of all instrumental music education students.  Designed to develop basic skills of playing and teaching the trumpet and F horn.  (offered fall semesters)
Prerequisites: students must display the ability to read music; open to music education majors only or with permission of the instructor
MUSC 302 Music Education: Low Brass Class (1 Credit Hour)
Required of all instrumental music education students. Designed to develop basic skills of playing and teaching  trombone, euphonium, and tuba.  (offered spring semesters)
Prerequisites: MUSC 301 ; open to music education majors only or with permission of the instructor
MUSC 303 Music Education: Clarinet and Oboe Class (1 Credit Hour)
Required of all instrumental music education students. Designed to develop basic skills of playing and teaching the clarinet and oboe, which serves as a foundation for the other woodwind instruments (offered fall semesters).
Prerequisites: Open to music education majors only or with permission of the instructor
MUSC 304 Music Education: Woodwind Class (1 Credit Hour)
Required of all instrumental music education students. Designed to develop basic skills of playing and teaching flute, bassoon, and saxophone (offered spring semesters).
Prerequisites: MUSC 303 ; open to music education majors only or with permission of the instructor
MUSC 305 Music Education: Upper Strings Class (1 Credit Hour)
Required of all instrumental music education students. Designed to develop basic skills of playing and teaching the violin and viola and to explore instructional materials used with these instruments.  (offered fall semesters)
Prerequisites: Open to music education majors only or with permission of the instructor
MUSC 306 Music Education: Lower Strings Class (1 Credit Hour)
Required of all instrumental music education students. The course is designed to develop basic skills of playing and teaching cello and string bass and to evaluate instructional materials used with these instruments.  Introduces heterogeneous teaching and rehearsal techniques using all four stringed instruments.  (offered spring semesters)
Prerequisites: MUSC 305 ; open to music education majors only or with permission of the instructor
MUSC 307 Music Education: Percussion Class I (1 Credit Hour)
Required of all instrumental music education students. Class lessons on all percussion instruments and the study of teaching methods for these instruments.  (offered spring semesters)
Prerequisites: Open to music education majors only or with permission of the instructor
MUSC 308 Music Education: Music for the Elementary Classroom Teacher (3 Credit Hours)
Students gain skills and experience related to the use of music in elementary school.
Prerequisites: junior standing
MUSC 309 Principles of Conducting (1 Credit Hour)
The development of basic skills and techniques necessary for conducting choral and instrumental ensembles.
Prerequisites: MUSC 224 , MUSC 322 , or permission of the instructor
MUSC 310 Music Education: Percussion Class II (1 Credit Hour)
Required of all instrumental music education students. Class lessons on all percussion instruments and the study of teaching methods for these instruments. (offered fall semesters)
Prerequisites: MUSC 307 ; open to music education majors only or with permission of the instructor
MUSC 311+ Recital Attendance (0 Credit Hours)
This course is required of all music majors and music minors for six semesters of their enrollment as a music major or a music minor. The successful completion of the course requires attendance at a specified number of approved recitals, concerts, and events each semester.
Prerequisites: Music major, music minor or permission of instructor
MUSC 315 Digital Audio Workstation Essentials (3 Credit Hours)
This course covers the fundamentals of Digital Audio Workstations (DAWs) with a focus on Pro Tools. Students will learn basic editing techniques and gain proficiency in creating, arranging and comping tracks, workflow optimization through shortcuts, and basic mixing techniques Additionally, the course delves into the fundamentals of microphone choices and placement. This course emphasizes basic signal flow, the recording process, and troubleshooting skills necessary for a successful audio recording session.
Prerequisites: MUSC 113 with a grade of C or better
MUSC 316 Popular Songwriting Techniques (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on the craft of songwriting.  Covering contemporary song forms, techniques of lyric and melody writing as well as popular harmony and analysis, the course prepares students to write hit songs.  Students will learn how to effectively demo their own songs, successfully collaborate, write jingles and copyright their own material.
Prerequisites: MUSC 222
MUSC 320 Studio Recording Principles (3 Credit Hours)
Expanding on the digital audio workstation skills gained in MUSC 315, this course introduces the student to modern multitrack recording techniques. Topics include microphone choice and placement, recording studio signal flow, the use of a large-format console, precise and creative audio editing, file structure and organization, and the basics of signal processing. Students apply this knowledge through guided in-class activities and practical group studio sessions designed to enhance their problem-solving, communication, and critical listening skills. This course is for Bachelor of Music with Emphasis in Sound Recording Technology majors only.
Prerequisites: MUSC 315 ; Bachelor of Music with Emphasis in Sound Recording Technology majors only
MUSC 321 Music Theory 3 (2 Credit Hours)
Music Theory 3 further develops skills learned previously in the theory sequence and introduces new topics including: writing and identifying diatonic sequences, spelling and resolving secondary dominants and leading-tone chords of V and scale degrees other than V, modulatory techniques (sequences, pivot chord, direct, common-tone), common-tone chords, NS chromatic modulations. Musical forms including binary, ternary, variation, Baroque forms, Sonata Form, etc. will be introduced and identification skills developed.
Corequisites: MUSC 323
MUSC 322 Advanced Music Theory and Post-Tonal Compositional Techniques (2 Credit Hours)
Topics explored in this course include: part-writing advanced chromatic harmonies and modulations, altered and extended chords, twentieth-century rhythmic techniques, pitch-class sets, analyzing with modes, scales, collections, and set theory, primitivism, basics of twelve-tone theory, and composing with twelve tones. Other topics explored include theoretical elements of composing after 1945, such as graphic and text notation, chance and indeterminacy, minimalism, post-modern music, and more recent trends.
Prerequisites: MUSC 321 or completion of music theory placement test or permission of instructor
MUSC 323 Aural Skills 3 (1 Credit Hour)
A continuation of MUSC 224 and in close connection with topics covered in MUSC 321 . Topics covered include chordal and chromatic harmony as well as written and keyboard work emphasizing skill development in harmonic modulation.
Prerequisites: MUSC 224 or permission of instructor
Corequisites: MUSC 321
MUSC 324 Advanced Aural Skills - Tonal and Beyond (1 Credit Hour)
A continuation of MUSC 323 ; recommended in conjunction with MUSC 322 . Further development of skills learned in MUSC 323 with an additional focus on post-tonal techniques.
Prerequisites: MUSC 323 or permission of the instructor
MUSC 333 Music Business and Entrepreneurship (3 Credit Hours)
Musicians in the twenty-first century must be equipped to meet the ever-changing demands of the contemporary music industry through the development of an entrepreneurial mindset and the utilization of both musical and extra-musical skills, which will allow them to create and build sustainable careers. This course offers a foundation upon which students can develop the musical careers they seek and provides first-hand experience with some of the basic tools modern musicians need to succeed.
Prerequisites: Music majors or minors or permission of the instructor
MUSC 335T Music Technology Survey (3 Credit Hours)
This introductory course will explore the impact of technology on music performance, composition, and education through in-class lecture, hands-on demonstration, and lab projects. Topics covered include but are not limited to: basic acoustics, basic audio signal flow for live performance and recording, microphone basics for live performance and recording, an introduction to sequencing and recording software and Digital Audio Workstations, MIDI and synthesis, basics of mixing, editing, an introduction to music notation software and uses, creation of 'music minus one' projects for pedagogical purposes, and an exploration of common file formats for distribution and publication.
Prerequisites: Music major or permission of the instructor; Sound Recording Technology majors must earn a grade of C or better to progress to MUSC 113
MUSC 336 Electronic Music (3 Credit Hours)
This introductory course is designed to give students a historical overview of mechanical and electronic music through topical study and listening examples.  Additionally, students will create their own electronic music compositions using analog, digital and virtual hardware/software.
Prerequisites: Music major or permission of the instructor
MUSC 337 Jazz Improvisation I (2 Credit Hours)
This course will introduce students to the basic concepts of Jazz improvisation, including harmonic and melodic implications.
Prerequisites: MUSC 221 or permission of the instructor
MUSC 338 Jazz Improvisation II (2 Credit Hours)
This course is a continuation of MUSC 337 , and will delve further into more advanced techniques used in Jazz improvisation.
Prerequisites: MUSC 337 or permission of the instructor
MUSC 340 Synthesis and Sound Design Techniques for Music Production (3 Credit Hours)
An introduction to the fascinating world of sound synthesis and sound design through practical hands-on assignments using industry-standard techniques and by exploring the technology and historical evolution. The course will focus on subtractive synthesis; a core knowledge for creating one's own sounds to use in music.
Prerequisites: MUSC 335T or permission of the instructor
MUSC 344 Introduction to Film Music (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed for music and non-music majors interested in the fascinating world of film scoring. Through a combination of historical exploration and in-depth analysis of musical and narrative elements, students will gain a comprehensive understanding of how music enhances storytelling in the world of film and television.
Prerequisites: ENGL 110C
MUSC 345 Diction for Singers (1 Credit Hour)
An introductory course dealing with correct principles of effective diction essential to the singing of English and Italian songs.  (offered every fall)
Prerequisites: vocal music major, vocal music minor, or permission of the instructor
MUSC 346 Diction for Singers (1 Credit Hour)
An introductory course dealing with correct principles of effective diction essential to the singing of German and French songs.  (offered every spring)
Prerequisites: MUSC 345
MUSC 350 Music Notation (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to introduce students to the art of music notation through exploring the history of music engraving practices, hands-on experience writing music manuscript (hand-written) and the use of modern notation software (Finale, Sibelius, etc.) with MIDI implementation.
Prerequisites: MUSC 221
MUSC 352 Critical Listening in Audio Production (3 Credit Hours)
Students develop critical listening skills through aural analysis, ear training, drill and practice, and comparative analyses. Topics covered include spectral balance and equalization, spatial attributes and reverberation, dynamic range control, distortion and noise, audio clip edit points, analysis of sound, frequencies, effects and processing, delays and decays, and master frequencies. Students are expected to identify frequency ranges, specific audio signatures, distortion, edits, and digit manipulation through aural examinations.
Prerequisites: MUSC 113
MUSC 355 Music Production I (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to give students hands-on experience working with both hardware and software in the modern MIDI Production studio. Topics covered include MIDI recording, sequencing, editing, and playback techniques, virtual instruments and hardware synthesizers, tracking and mixing in a DAW, and file formats and distribution.
Prerequisites: MUSC 335T
MUSC 361 History of Western Art Music from Ancient through Baroque (3 Credit Hours)
A survey of the development of western art music, from Ancient Greece through the Baroque, highlighting the influence of historical events upon musical developments.
Prerequisites: MUSC 264A , or MUSC 261 and MUSC 262, and MUSC 222 , or permission of instructor
MUSC 362W History of Western Art Music from Classical through Modern (3 Credit Hours)
A survey of the development of western art music, from Classical through Modern, showing the influence of historical events upon musical development.  This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: grade of C or better in ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C ; MUSC 261 and MUSC 262 or MUSC 264A or MUSC 126A , and MUSC 222 or permission of instructor
MUSC 368 Music Industry Internship (3 Credit Hours)
An opportunity to integrate service and applied learning experience with music industry perspectives.
Prerequisites: Permission of instructor
MUSC 370 Jazz Combo (1 Credit Hour)
This ensemble will explore Jazz literature, focusing primarily on the small group format.  Previous experience with improvisation is necessary for all participants.
Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor
MUSC 371+ Ensemble (1 Credit Hour)
One to three rehearsal periods per week, depending on the ensemble.  Students will participate in rehearsals and public performances.
Prerequisites: by audition only, or permission of instructor; must have a significant background in performing
MUSC 372+ Ensemble (1 Credit Hour)
Studio class ensemble for strings. Meets once a week.
Prerequisites: By audition only, or permission of instructor; must have a significant background in performing
MUSC 376+ F. Ludwig Diehn Chorale (0 Credit Hours)
This is a performance-based course. It is designed to train music majors and non-majors in small ensemble choral techniques. This choral ensemble is an audition-only group.
Prerequisites: Audition or permission of instructor
MUSC 377 Extracurricular Studies (1-6 Credit Hours)
Extracurricular activities may be approved for credit based on objectives, criteria, and evaluative procedures as formally determined by the department and the student prior to the semester in which the activity is to take place.  Credit is subject to review by the provost.
Prerequisites: Approval by the department chair in accordance with the policy on granting credit for extracurricular activities
MUSC 378 Extracurricular Studies (1-6 Credit Hours)
Extracurricular activities may be approved for credit based on objectives, criteria, and evaluative procedures as formally determined by the department and the student prior to the semester in which the activity is to take place.  Credit is subject to review by the Provost.
Prerequisites: Approval by the department chair in accordance with the policy on granting credit for extracurricular activities
MUSC 380 Symphonic Band (1 Credit Hour)
Symphonic Band is a large ensemble for woodwind, brass and percussion players open to all university students with an audition for ensemble seating. Students will participate in rehearsals and concerts.
Prerequisites: Students must successfully perform on a standard concert band instrument or concert percussion, be able to read music, and permission of the instructor
MUSC 381+ Concert Choir (1 Credit Hour)
Participation in rehearsals and public performances of the Concert Choir.
Prerequisites: Ability to read music; audition required
MUSC 382+ Wind Ensemble (1 Credit Hour)
Participation in rehearsals and public performances of the band.  Three rehearsal periods per week.
Prerequisites: ability to read music and/or permission of the instructor
MUSC 383+ Symphony Orchestra (1 Credit Hour)
Participation in rehearsals and public performances of the University Symphony Orchestra.  Rehearsals two days per week and dress rehearsals TBA.
Prerequisites: by audition or permission of the instructor
MUSC 384+ Jazz Orchestra (1 Credit Hour)
This instrumental group will explore and perform standard jazz literature for the Jazz Ensemble and the contemporary Jazz Orchestra.
Prerequisites: Audition for the instructor required at the beginning of each semester
MUSC 385+ Monarch Basketball Band (1 Credit Hour)
Basketball band performs at all home Men's and Women's basketball games and selected tournament performances.
Prerequisites: Ability to read music, play an applicable instrument at the requisite level, and/or permission of the instructor
MUSC 386+ Jazz Choir (1 Credit Hour)
Vocal jazz ensemble, performing standard jazz choir literature.
Prerequisites: ability to read music and permission of the instructor
MUSC 387+ Collegium Musicum (1 Credit Hour)
Early music instrumental ensemble.
Prerequisites: permission of the instructor
MUSC 388+ Madrigal Singers (1 Credit Hour)
Small vocal ensemble focusing on a cappella classical music.
Prerequisites: permission of the instructor
MUSC 389+ Brass Choir (1 Credit Hour)
Brass Ensemble consisting of trumpets, horns, trombones, euphoniums, and tubas.  Performing works written for brass as well as  arrangements of choral, orchestral, jazz, pop, and show music.
Prerequisites: ability to read music and/or permission of the instructor; audition required
MUSC 390 Monarch Marching Band (1 Credit Hour)
The Monarch Marching Band will meet only during the fall semester and perform at all home and some away football games and other selected events.  Students will participate in rehearsals and performances.
Prerequisites: Successful playing audition, the ability to read music and permission of the instructor; students accepted to participate must attend summer training camp prior to classes beginning in the fall
MUSC 391+ Commercial Music Ensemble (1 Credit Hour)
An ensemble comprised of a rhythm section and a few vocalists. Students will play musical covers and original songs in weekly rehearsals, and performs a live concert and/or records in the studio. Can be taken a maximum of 2 times for credit.
Prerequisites: Auditions required
MUSC 395 Topics in Music (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics designed for nonmajors, or for credit within a major.  These courses will appear in the course schedule.  Course descriptions and prerequisites for each course may be found in information distributed to all academic advisors.
Prerequisites: junior standing or permission of the instructor
MUSC 396 Topics in Music (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics designed for nonmajors, or for credit within a major.  These courses will appear in the course schedule.  Course descriptions and prerequisites for each course may be found in information distributed to all academic advisors.
Prerequisites: junior standing or permission of the instructor
MUSC 397 Tutorial Work in Special Topics in Music (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor.  Conferences and papers as appropriate.
Prerequisites: junior standing and approval of the department chair
MUSC 398 Tutorial Work in Special Topics in Music (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor.  Conferences and papers as appropriate.
Prerequisites: junior standing and approval of the department chair
MUSC 401 Music Education: Elementary Vocal and General Methods (2 Credit Hours)
Required prior to student teaching for all students in music education.  Focuses on  materials and methods of vocal and general instruction for elementary music classrooms. (offered fall semesters)
Pre- or corequisite: MUSC 402
MUSC 402 Music Education: Practicum (Elementary Vocal and General) (1 Credit Hour)
Required prior to the Teacher Candidate Internship (student teaching) for all students in music education. Enables students to observe master classroom teachers and to test accumulated teaching practices in elementary school vocal and general classroom settings. 20 hours of music classroom observation required. Also, in order to receive the required school practicum placement, students must have completed the ODU Office of Clinical Experiences background check/clearance process prior to the beginning of this course. The clearance process takes eight weeks. Students must register for the practicum placement on the Office of Clinical Experiences web pages prior to the course drop/add deadline. Students should contact their advisor for more information. (offered fall and spring semesters)
Prerequisites: MUSC 300 ; admission to the Teacher Education program, including meeting minimum Virginia Board of Education testing requirements and minimum GPA of 2.75 overall, in the Music Education major, and Professional Education courses required
Pre- or corequisite: MUSC 401
MUSC 403 Music Education: Secondary Vocal Methods (2 Credit Hours)
Required prior to the Teacher Candidate Internship (student teaching) for all students in music education with voice, keyboard or guitar concentration. Focuses on methods of vocal instruction, materials and rehearsal methods for secondary vocal classroom settings. (offered spring semesters)
Pre- or corequisite: MUSC 404
MUSC 404 Music Education: Practicum (Secondary Vocal) (1 Credit Hour)
Required prior to student teaching for all students in music education with voice, keyboard or guitar concentration. Enables students to observe master teachers and to test accumulated teaching practices in secondary school vocal classroom settings. 20 hours of observation required. Passing score of 160 on the Praxis Subject assessment, music content knowledge examination (formerly Praxis II) and passing scores on the VCLA are requirements of this course.  Also, in order to receive the required school practicum placement, students must have completed the ODU Office of Clinical Experiences background check/clearance process prior to the beginning of this course. The clearance process takes eight weeks. Students must register for the practicum placement on the Office of Clinical Experiences web pages prior to the course drop/add deadline. Students should contact their advisor for more information. (offered fall and spring semesters).
Prerequisites: MUSC 300 ; admission to the Teacher Education program, including meeting minimum Virginia Board of Education testing requirements and minimum GPA of 2.75 overall, in the Music Education major, and Professional Education courses required
Pre- or corequisite: MUSC 403
MUSC 407 Music Education: Secondary Instrumental Methods (2 Credit Hours)
Required prior to the Teacher Candidate Internship (student teaching) for all students in music education with an instrumental music concentration.  Focuses on methods of instruction, materials and rehearsal methods for secondary instrumental classrooms. (offered spring semesters)
Pre- or corequisite: MUSC 408
MUSC 408 Music Education: Practicum (Secondary Instrumental) (1 Credit Hour)
Required prior to the Teacher Candidate Internship (student teaching) for all students in music education with instrumental music concentration. Enables students to observe master teachers and to test accumulated teaching practices in secondary school instrumental classrooms. Passing score of 160 on the Praxis Subject assessment, music content knowledge examination (formerly Praxis II) and passing scores on the VCLA are requirements of this course. Also, in order to receive the required school practicum placement, students must have completed the ODU Office of Clinical Experiences background check/clearance process prior to the beginning of this course. The clearance process takes eight weeks. Students must register for the practicum placement on the Office of Clinical Experiences web pages prior to the course drop/add deadline. Students should contact their advisor for more information. Offered fall and spring semesters.
Prerequisites: MUSC 300 ; admission to the Teacher Education program, including meeting minimum Virginia Board of Education testing requirements and minimum GPA of 2.75 overall, in the Music Education major, and Professional Education courses required
Pre- or corequisite: MUSC 407
MUSC 409 Music Education: Instrumental Techniques (1 Credit Hour)
Required prior to the Teacher Candidate Internship (student teaching) for all students in music education with the vocal, keyboard and guitar concentration. Focuses on development of vocal majors' ability to read instrumental scores; provides vocal majors an understanding of families of instruments.
Prerequisites: vocal music education majors or permission of the instructor
MUSC 410/510 Psychology of Music (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to assist students in enhancing their understanding of the aesthetic response to music in various settings.  Students will learn to integrate their understanding of musical aptitude as it relates to human growth and development.  In addition, students will study the psychological implication of personality types as they develop, implement, and assess their pedagogical approach.
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of instructor
MUSC 413 Advanced Choral Conducting (2 Credit Hours)
Course deals with the analysis, interpretation, and conducting of varied choral literature.
Prerequisites: MUSC 309 or permission of instructor
MUSC 414 Advanced Instrumental Conducting (2 Credit Hours)
Course deals with the analysis, interpretation, and conducting of varied instrumental literature.
Prerequisites: MUSC 309 or permission of instructor
MUSC 415 The Art and Craft of Mixing (3 Credit Hours)
In this course, students learn how to mix music that supports the emotion of the song and engages listeners. Topics include effective session preparation, advanced editing techniques, musical balancing, creative use of audio effects, and automation techniques. Students will work with pre-recorded multitracks, completing numerous mixes using plug-ins and outboard signal processors, and will receive in-depth critical feedback from their instructor and peers. Through this process, students will develop the critical listening and technical skills to confidently creatively shape sound. This course is for Bachelor of Music with Emphasis in Sound Recording Technology majors only.
Prerequisites: MUSC 320 ; Bachelor of Music with Emphasis in Sound Recording Technology majors only
MUSC 416 Arranging for the Contemporary Musician and Producer (3 Credit Hours)
Students learn how to arrange music for rhythm sections, vocals, and diverse ensembles, including brass, woodwinds and strings. This course uniquely addresses the evolving landscape of modern music production, bridging the gap between virtual instruments and recording musicians in the studio. As the recording process evolves, so do the demands on musical arrangement and orchestration. This course provides students with the essential tools and techniques to adapt their arrangements to meet the needs of contemporary recording processes.
Prerequisites: MUSC 461 and MUSC 316
MUSC 420 Music Production Techniques (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides a comprehensive exploration of record production, focusing on creative and technical aspects. Topics include pre-production, song arrangement choices, collaboration with artists, and advanced mixing skills. The final project involves planning, producing, and presenting a complete music production project, with peer feedback and analysis. Students in this course will develop essential skills for successful music careers, emphasizing creativity and technical proficiency.
Prerequisites: MUSC 415 ; Bachelor of Music with Emphasis in Sound Recording Technology majors only
MUSC 421 Counterpoint (2 Credit Hours)
A study of the contrapuntal techniques of sixteenth century composers and their influence upon composers of the eighteenth through twentieth centuries.  (offered fall, even years)
Prerequisites: MUSC 221 or permission of instructor
MUSC 422/522 Form and Analysis (2 Credit Hours)
Aural analysis study and analysis of the principal traditional musical forms.  Stylistic and harmonic analysis as it related to score study will be discussed.  (offered spring, even years)
Prerequisites: MUSC 322 and MUSC 324 or permission of the instructor
MUSC 424 Orchestration (2 Credit Hours)
A study of the range, musical functions, and technical characteristics of the instruments and their color possibilities in various combinations. Practical experience in scoring for small and large ensembles.  (offered fall, odd years)
Prerequisites: MUSC 321 or permission of instructor
MUSC 425 Vocal Arranging (2 Credit Hours)
This course covers basic arranging techniques for traditional vocal ensembles.  Students will develop the ability to reshape pre-existing melodies and chord progressions into successful arrangements for various groups.
Prerequisites: MUSC 222 or permission of instructor
MUSC 426/526 Marching Band Techniques and Arranging (2 Credit Hours)
Students will learn how to chart and arrange music for the marching band.  In addition, basic vocal arranging techniques will be discussed.  Students will be required to observe different styles of school marching bands.
Prerequisites: Music Education major or permission of instructor
MUSC 435 Music Production II (3 Credit Hours)
This course builds upon the fundamentals experienced in the introductory MIDI course.  Topics include: advanced sequencing techniques, looping, editing, data manipulation, patch and control changes through real-time recording, patch editing, storage and retrieval, incorporation of external hardware, sampling, and an introduction to the incorporation of digital audio.
Prerequisites: MUSC 335T
MUSC 440/540 Scoring for Film (3 Credit Hours)
This is a hands-on course in the art of film composition. Students will analyze iconic film scores from Bernard Herrmann to John Powell, exploring music's narrative impact, gain insight into the modern composer’s workflow and diverse skill sets, and apply the techniques learned in practical projects, transitioning from sketch to demo using a DAW. The course culminates in a recording session for the final project. This projects allows students to practice film spotting, thematic writing, sketch to demo production, arranging and music preparation for a live recording experience. Students elevate their skills in writing music that uniquely supports and enhances visual storytelling.
Prerequisites: MUSC 222 and MUSC 335T
MUSC 445/545 Applied Music Pedagogy (1 Credit Hour)
Teaching techniques, literature in the performing area.  Seminar deals with resource materials.  Laboratory:  observation and teaching under supervision.
Prerequisites: music major senior standing or permission of the department
MUSC 446 Applied Music Literature (1 Credit Hour)
Teaching techniques, literature in the performing area.  Seminar portion of the course deals with resource materials.  Laboratory portion of the course includes observation and teaching under supervision.
Prerequisites: music major senior standing or permission of the department
MUSC 460/560 History of Jazz (3 Credit Hours)
This course will study the historical development of jazz as an American art form.  The emotion and meaning of this style will be investigated as well as the historical and contemporary aesthetic response.  Emphasis will include the defining role of African American artists.  The influence of jazz on the development of contemporary American music will be discussed.  Written critiques of live performances will be required.
Prerequisites: junior standing or permission of the instructor
MUSC 461/561 History of Recorded Music (3 Credit Hours)
The course covers how music has co-evolved with technology, the entertainment business, and cultural trends. The main theme is how recording technology has evolved, and with it, the music making and music listening experiences. Students will expand their musical vocabulary through the study of numerous musical genres, listening to and discussing the essential elements of impactful records, and learning about key artists, composers, producers, engineers, and other music professionals (both past and present). Students will gain a better understanding of the role music plays in the entertainment industry, including with film, TV, games, social media, live events, and more.
Prerequisites: ENGL 110C
MUSC 462/562 Hip-Hop Music and Culture (3 Credit Hours)
Hip-hop, from local roots to global dominance, has sparked extensive journalistic and academic exploration primarily focused on its social and cultural impacts. This course delves into the historical factors shaping hip-hop's origin and evolution, examines its global success and translation both musically and linguistically, and engages in contemplation regarding the essence and direction of hip-hop. No prior musical experience or knowledge of music notation is required, but students will develop a basic set of skills for discussing the structure and function of hip-hop songs.
MUSC 466/566 Music of the 20th Century to the Present (3 Credit Hours)
A study of the techniques and styles in music in the twentieth and twenty-first century (offered spring).
Prerequisites: MUSC 222 , MUSC 361 , and MUSC 362W , or permission of the instructor
MUSC 471/571 Musicians' Health: Music and Medicine (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to assist music students to enhance their understanding of musicians' health issues in order to prepare them to achieve their desired performance potential.
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of Instructor
MUSC 491/591 Music History from the Ancient to Baroque Era (3 Credit Hours)
Study of music history (specific topics vary) including historical perspective in relation to style and development of music, and the function of music in society and culture.  Topics will be from the Ancient through the Baroque era (offered fall semester).
Prerequisites: MUSC 221 , MUSC 222 , MUSC 361 and MUSC 362W , or permission of instructor
MUSC 492/592 Music History from the Classical through Modern Era (3 Credit Hours)
Study of music history (specific topics vary) including historical perspective in relation to style and development of music, and the function of music in society and culture.  Topics will be from the Classical through Modern era.
Prerequisites: MUSC 221 , MUSC 222 , MUSC 361 and MUSC 362W , or permission of instructor
MUSC 494/594 Music in the Romantic Era (3 Credit Hours)
A study of music history from the late works of Beethoven to Mahler and Strauss.  A discussion of musical style within the context of cultural history. (spring semesters, even years)
Prerequisites: MUSC 221 , MUSC 222 , MUSC 361 , and MUSC 362W , or permission of instructor
MUSC 495/595 Topics in Music (1-3 Credit Hours)
These courses will appear in the course schedule.  Course descriptions and prerequisites for each course may be found in information distributed to all academic advisors.
Prerequisites: junior standing or permission of the instructor
MUSC 496/596 Topics in Music (1-3 Credit Hours)
These courses will appear in the course schedule.  Course descriptions and prerequisites for each course may be found in information distributed to all academic advisors.
Prerequisites: junior standing or permission of the instructor
MUSC 497 Tutorial Work in Special Topics in Music (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor.  Conferences and papers as appropriate.
Prerequisites: senior standing and approval of the department chair
MUSC 498 Tutorial Work in Special Topics in Music (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor.  Conferences and papers as appropriate.
Prerequisites: senior standing and approval of the department chair
Music Education (MUSE)
MUSE 141 Music Education Applied Piano Lesson (2 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to support the continued training and development of piano skills needed in the elementary, secondary choral, and private vocal studio setting. This course is only for Bachelor of Music, Music Education majors in the Vocal, Guitar, or Keyboard concentration.
Prerequisites: MUSC 130
MUSE 150 Freshman Seminar 1 for Music Education Students (1 Credit Hour)
This course is designed to help students make the most out of their experience as a student at ODU, create a sense of community among music education majors, and prepare students for the expectations of being a college student in the Diehn School of Music.
MUSE 151 Freshman Seminar II for Music Education Students (1 Credit Hour)
This course provides a professional community for emerging music educators. Discussion and fieldwork will focus on the application of instructional and learning strategies for guiding critical and creative music thinking, teaching and learning in a variety of music educational contexts.
