Nursing
Academic Preparation
The University encourages students to participate in a college preparatory program of study. Preference is given to students enrolled in Advanced Placement (AP) or International Baccalaureate (IB), honors and college-level dual enrollment courses.
The most qualified applicants’ high school curriculum includes course work in the following areas:
English - 4 units
Social Sciences - 3 units (World History, United States History and United States Government)
Mathematics - 3 units (Algebra, Geometry, Algebra II)
Sciences - 3 units of laboratory sciences
Foreign Language - 3 years of one foreign language or two years of two foreign languages
Note: Batten College of Engineering and Technology intended applicants who have taken advanced courses, particularly in math, chemistry and physics, are best prepared for the academic rigor of the Batten College of Engineering and Technology and are more competitive in the admissions process. Students are encouraged to complete four units of mathematics that include one unit of higher-level math courses such as trigonometry, analysis, or calculus. Science units should include one unit of chemistry, one unit of physics, and one unit in another area of science, such as general science, physical science, environmental science, and anatomy and physiology.
Academic Criteria
The weighted cumulative high school grade point average (HS GPA) and performance on the Scholastic Assessment Test I (SAT) or the American College Testing (ACT) Program are primary considerations during the application review. Applicants should consult http://sat.collegeboard.org/home or http://www.act.org/ for test registration procedures and to request scores be sent to Old Dominion University. Freshman applicants may choose whether to submit standardized test scores. Applicants choosing to exclude test scores should provide evidence of a challenging academic curriculum indicative of future college success via their submitted high school transcript and possess demonstrated leadership in extracurricular, work, or service experiences. Applying test-optional does not guarantee admission.
Admission of Homeschool Graduates
Students who received secondary instruction at home are encouraged to apply using the regular admissions application by visiting http://www.odu.edu/apply . In addition to the application and $50 non-refundable fee, students should also submit a transcript outlining their curricula and grades awarded by the parent instructor, who should also sign the document attesting to its authenticity. Students who are not eligible for or who do not wish to be reviewed as a test-optional candidate for admission should also submit results from the SAT or ACT.
Additional Credentials
Applicants are encouraged (not required) to submit a resume, essay, and/or letters of recommendation as part of their application materials. These additional credentials, combined with the academic qualifications, provide the Office of Undergraduate Admissions with a comprehensive profile of an applicant’s potential for academic success and ability to contribute to the academic community. Students with unique talents and abilities in art, music, leadership, and other endeavors should provide such information.
Deposits for Admission
All new undergraduate applicants who wish to accept their offer of admission to the University are required to submit a non-refundable $200 admissions deposit.
Deferring Admission
Under certain circumstances new undergraduate applicants may request to defer their admission up to one year. All deferment requests must be submitted in writing to the Office of Admissions.
Gifted High School Students
High school students with demonstrated exceptional academic abilities may take classes before completing the full program of high school studies. Students must submit a non-degree online application accompanied by a high school transcript, letters of recommendation supporting the student's request for early enrollment into college-level courses from the high school principal and designated parent/guardian. If available, SAT or ACT test scores should be included. NOTE: Admission to the University does not imply admission to a specific course or program. Departmental approval may be required.
Freshmen Early Action Admission
Freshman applicants who submit the application for admission, fee, and all credentials by the early action deadline receive priority consideration and decision notification. Early action decisions are non-binding. Please refer to the Office of Admissions website for more information and deadlines.
Freshmen Regular Admission
Freshman applicants who submit the application for admission, fee, and all credentials by the regular admission application deadline are reviewed and notified on a rolling basis.
Non-Traditional Freshmen
Non-traditional freshman applicants are typically over the age of 21 and have graduated from high school or received a General Education Development (GED) Certificate two or more years ago. Additionally, they have not enrolled in any regionally accredited college or university (excluding dual enrollment) since the completion of high school. Non-traditional freshman applicants must submit the application, the application fee, and an official high school transcript or GED transcript presenting a minimum composite score of 500. If the applicant has graduated from high school or received the GED certificate within the past two years, official SAT or ACT standardized test scores may be requested. The submission of a resume and statement of goals is strongly encouraged.
Freshmen Guaranteed Entry and Undergraduate to Graduate Degree Linked Programs
High-ability freshmen may be guaranteed entry into professional and graduate school in a number of areas. The dental hygiene program offers a guaranteed freshman entry option, and the BS/MD program in the College of Sciences (guaranteed admission to medical school) allows students to begin professional school after three years.
Information on undergraduate to graduate linked degree programs may be obtained on the University’s website, program sections in this Catalog, or by contacting the individual programs or departments. A listing can be found at the linked programs page in this Catalog.
Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate and A/AS Level Credit
Old Dominion University recognizes the rigor and challenge of the Advanced Placement (AP), International Baccalaureate (IB) and Cambridge Advanced (A/AS Level) programs.  Credit may also be awarded for A/AS Level Examinations from examining boards other than the Cambridge Advanced Program. Advanced standing credit is awarded to students who earn qualifying scores on AP, IB and Cambridge Advanced (A/AS Level) subject examinations. See the AP and IB equivalency charts on the ODU website: https://www.odu.edu/academics/academic-records/score-analysis/ap-ib . For further information on credit awarded for A/AS Level Examinations, contact the Office of Undergraduate Admissions.
Most credits awarded for AP, IB, and Cambridge Advanced (A/AS Level) examinations satisfy individual course requirements in ODU’s General Education curriculum. Course credit will not be awarded until final and official examination scores are received. Students must request that their official exam results be sent to the Old Dominion University Office of Undergraduate Admissions.
-Approved by the Board of Visitors
Transfer Admission
Transfer applicants are students who have attended an institution of higher education accredited by accrediting agencies recognized by the U.S. Department of Education for Title IV purposes ( https://www2.ed.gov/admins/finaid/accred/accreditation_pg9.html ) or international equivalent after graduating from high school or receiving a GED. Transfer applicants must submit official transcripts from all previously attended institutions (including post-secondary institutions outside of the U.S.) regardless of whether or not the transfer credit will apply toward an Old Dominion University degree. All students submitting an application for admission certify the content is true and correct. Deliberate falsification of application information will result in immediate withdrawal and a potential forfeiture of credits.  By submitting an application, applicants agree to abide by and support the rules, regulations and Honor Code of Old Dominion University.
Transfer Guaranteed Admission (GAA)
Old Dominion University guarantees admission to  applicants completing a transfer-oriented degree program or an articulated applied associate degree program at a Virginia community college (VCCS) with a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 2.5 or higher on a four-point scale. Submission of the Letter of Intent to Transfer is required for eligibility under this guaranteed articulation agreement (GAA) program. Graduates of an articulated applied associate degree program must have met all degree/course requirements outlined in the specific curriculum articulation agreement.
Some degree programs at Old Dominion University require a secondary admission process; thus, guaranteed admission into Old Dominion University does not imply admission to these specific degree programs. Applicants admitted to Old Dominion University via the Letter of Intent should contact the relevant department for information regarding secondary admission requirements, deadlines, and criteria.
Transfer Academic Criteria
The Office of Undergraduate Admissions will consider the cumulative grade point average and the grade point average (based on a four-point scale) of the most recent 24 credit hours. Performance on the Scholastic Assessment Test I (SAT) or American College Testing (ACT) Program may be required if the applicant has completed fewer than 24 semester hours of academic work at a regionally accredited college or university.
Transfer Admission
Transfer applicants must submit the application, fee, all official transcripts from any previously attended institution, as well as all other required credentials by the appropriate deadline. Applicants who have completed the application process will receive notification on a rolling basis.
Evaluation of transfer credit. Subsequent to notification of admission, a formal evaluation of credit is completed by the Office of Undergraduate Admissions, and students will be notified via email when the evaluation is available for review at https://www.leoonline.odu.edu .  Transfer credits may be awarded for specified equivalent courses, electives within a discipline or free electives. Please note, admitted transfer applicants who do not attend the University within one year of their admitted term must re-apply.
Transfer of Credit
Old Dominion University considers transfer credit from institutions of higher education accredited by accrediting agencies recognized by the U.S. Department of Education for Title IV purposes ( https://www2.ed.gov/admins/finaid/accred/accreditation_pg9.html ) or international equivalent.  A grade of C (2.00) or above must be earned in the course.  Credits will be applied as equivalent college courses offered at Old Dominion University after evaluation from the appropriate faculty member in the corresponding academic department or the Office of Undergraduate Admissions.  Courses are evaluated by reviewing the course content (syllabus, assignments, catalog description) regardless of the mode of instruction.  Students are required to submit academic transcripts from all institutions attended.  In general, all liberal arts credits and professional and technical courses parallel to those of Old Dominion University are transferable. Graduate credit will not be accepted for undergraduate degree requirements.
Transfer Policies for General Education Requirements
Students wishing to transfer academic credits into Old Dominion University to satisfy the General Education Requirements must apply individual transfer courses to the academic skills, Ways of Knowing, and upper-division categories as listed in this catalog. Students must submit transcripts to the Office of Undergraduate Admissions for evaluation. Decisions regarding the equivalency of transfer courses to satisfy General Education Requirements will rest with the chair of the academic department responsible for the subject matter involved. Students should be aware that even though University General Education Requirements might be met through transfer courses, departmental and college requirements must still be met.
With regard to the fulfillment of General Education Requirements, students will be able to apply transfer credit on a course-by-course basis rather than hour-by-hour as long as the course is determined to be commensurate with content categories of the curriculum used to fulfill General Education Requirements at Old Dominion University. Questions regarding such equivalency will be directed to the chair of the academic department responsible for the subject. Any such course transfer will carry the number of academic credits assigned by the institution where the credits were earned. In the case of quarter system credits, the standard conversion of quarter hours to semester hours (3:2) will be used.
Students who have received an AA, AS, or AA&S from Richard Bland College or the Virginia Community College System (including the AA&S degree in general studies) have met all lower-division General Education requirements except those specified as major or college requirements and requirements for completion of the Undergraduate Writing Program. Applicants who have received the AS degree in general studies offered by institutions whose general studies degrees are recognized as transfer degrees by the State Council of Higher Education for Virginia will be guaranteed acceptance as meeting lower-division General Education Requirements. AS degrees in general studies received from institutions whose general studies degrees are not recognized by the State Council of Higher Education for Virginia will be examined individually to determine whether they are university parallel and eligible for lower-division General Education requirement waivers. Students who have earned an Associate of Applied Science (AAS) degree from the Virginia Community College System that includes the required General Education courses have met all lower-division General Education requirements except those specified as major or college requirements and requirements for completion of the Undergraduate Writing Program. Associate degrees awarded outside the Virginia Community College System are examined individually to determine whether they are university parallel programs (consistent with the requirements of degrees from the Virginia Community College System) and eligible for lower-division General Education requirement waivers. Students who transfer into the University from a campus of the Virginia Community College System without having completed the AA, AS, or AA&S degree may receive credit for General Education courses, even if these courses are not full equivalents of Old Dominion University courses. The University evaluates transcripts of all transfer students from two- or four-year institutions at the time of the matriculation and assigns appropriate transfer credit for General Education courses judged as compatible with corresponding Old Dominion University General Education courses. Students must earn a grade of C (2.0) or better in order to receive the credit hours associated with classes taken at other regionally accredited institutions.
Substitutions for General Education Requirements can be made only by the dean of the college offering the General Education skill or Ways of Knowing area.
Students earning high school diplomas before December 31, 1985 will be exempted from the General Education foreign language requirement as part of the skills area of General Education at Old Dominion University. This does not waive departmental or major requirements.
Students who have earned a baccalaureate degree at another regionally accredited institution and who wish to acquire a second baccalaureate degree from Old Dominion University will be considered to have fulfilled the lower-division writing requirement and University General Education Requirements with the exception of the writing intensive (W) course in the major; such students must complete the writing intensive course in the major at Old Dominion University and must earn a grade of C (2.0) or better. Second degree students will be expected to meet all college, school and departmental requirements as well as complete a minimum of 30 semester hours at Old Dominion University for a second degree.
Special Transfer Credit Policies. Transfer students admitted to the Department of Art must submit a portfolio for evaluation by the faculty to determine the number of art credits that will be accepted from previous study. Information on portfolio requirements may be obtained from the chair of the department. For more information, refer to the Department of Art section of this catalog. Transfer students interested in music must have an audition to determine placement and number of credits transferable from previous study. Information on the audition may be obtained from the chair of the department. For more information, refer to the Department of Music section of this catalog.
Military Service and Prior Learning Assessment Credit. Old Dominion University recognizes the specialized training and skills of our military service members.  Credit may be awarded for various types of military experiences and other experiential learning skills.
Evaluation of Transfer Credit. Subsequent to notification of admission, a formal evaluation of credit is completed by the Office of Undergraduate Admissions.  Transfer credits may be awarded for specified equivalent courses, electives within a discipline or free electives.
Appeals of Transfer Credit Evaluations
Students who wish to appeal their transfer credit evaluation may consult with the Office of Undergraduate Admissions or the academic department relevant to the course in question. Course descriptions and/or syllabi are required for departmental review. Once a course equivalency is approved, the department will request the Office of Undergraduate Admissions to update the student's record.
Students with Foreign Credentials
U.S. Citizens and Permanent Residents who have attended high school (secondary) and/or post-secondary (college or university) institutions outside the United States must submit official credentials to the Office of Undergraduate Admissions. Official transcripts are delivered in a sealed envelope bearing the official seal and signatures of the issuing institution. Transcripts should be sent directly from the previous institution to Old Dominion University. All transcripts that are not issued in English must be supplemented with a literal (word-for-word) translation. These translations should be official and stamped by a school official or certified by an acceptable translation service. For a list of acceptable translation companies, please visit the Office of Undergraduate Admissions website. Notarized copies are not considered official documents. Old Dominion University will not accept unattested photocopies or documents verified by a local notary public. All submitted documents become property of Old Dominion University and will not be returned. Old Dominion University conducts in-house evaluations of foreign credentials. Evaluations completed by a credential evaluation service or agency (AACRAO, WES, ECE, etc.) will serve as an English translation only.
Second Baccalaureate Degree Admission
Second baccalaureate degree applicants are students who have earned a bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited college or university and wish to pursue an additional bachelor’s degree in a different course of study. Second baccalaureate degree applicants must submit the application form, fee, all official transcripts from any previously attended institution, and all other credentials by the appropriate deadline for their intended term of entry. Applicants who have completed the application process will receive notification on a rolling basis. Please refer to the Office of Undergraduate Admissions website for the application form and deadlines. Second baccalaureate degree students who do not attend the University within one year of their admitted term must re-apply by submitting a new application, fee and updated credentials.  Additional information can be found in the section of this Catalog on Second Baccalaureate Degree.
Non-degree Admission
Non-degree entry is available to applicants who do not choose to apply for admission to a degree program but wish to enroll in course work at Old Dominion University. Federal financial aid is not available for non-degree students, except for those in approved teacher certification programs. The option of non-degree admission is available for the following student types.
Visiting students – those taking course work at Old Dominion University with the intention of transferring the course credit to their home degree-granting institution.
Certificate program students – individuals expanding their academic background or seeking teacher certification. For information related to registering for a certificate program, please contact the academic department directly. Financial aid is not available for non-degree students, except those in approved teacher certification programs.
Adult learners – students taking courses for personal and/or academic growth.
Gifted High School Scholars – high school students taking college-level courses (permission is needed from the high school principal and parent/or legal guardian).
Additional Information
All students taking prerequisites (undergraduate, second degree or graduate) for a degree-seeking program should seek the approval of the academic department before registering for course work as a non-degree student.  Financial aid is not available for non-degree students, except those in approved teacher certification programs.
Students under suspension from Old Dominion University or another college or university are not eligible to attend Old Dominion University.
Applicants denied admission to Old Dominion University are not eligible for non-degree admission without a change from the original application type (i.e. attended a community college or became non-traditional by definition).
Academic advisors are not assigned to non-degree-seeking students, but students are strongly encouraged to contact their academic department of interest prior to registering for courses.
Undergraduate students are advised to take no more than 24 semester hours as non-degree students.
All students, degree and non-degree alike, must meet the continuance requirements as stated in the current Undergraduate Catalog. Failure to meet these requirements will subject students to probation or suspension.
Non-native speakers of English must provide evidence of English language proficiency.
Non-degree Admission Procedures
In addition to the applications, non-degree seeking students must submit the application fee. The link to the online application is located on the Office of Undergraduate Admissions website. Official credentials may not be required at the time of application; however, unofficial records or a personal interview may be requested for course registration. It is understood that all student information stated on the application is truthful. Deliberate falsification of application information will result in immediate withdrawal and a potential forfeiture of credits. By submitting an application, applicants agree to abide by and support the rules, regulations and Honor Code of Old Dominion University. Non-degree students who do not attend the University within one semester of their admitted term must re-apply by submitting a new non-degree application and fee.
Admission Reactivation
Returning applicants are students who previously attended Old Dominion University on a degree-seeking basis and left the University in good academic standing. Degree-seeking students separated from the University for more than 12 months are required to complete a returning student application available on the online application portal by selected "Undergraduate Returning Student Application." If the separation from the University was longer then five years, applicants are required to resubmit all official transcripts and other required credentials.
Students who are returning from academic suspension must participate in the Academic Continuance Experience for Success (ACES) program prior to the start of classes for the returning semester. More information about readmission from suspension can be found at http://www.odu.edu/academics/academic-records/grades/academic-performance/reinstatement or by contacting the Center for Advising Administration and Academic Partnerships in the Student Success Center (also see Undergraduate Continuance Regulations and Adjusted Resident Credit information in this Catalog).
The deadlines to apply for admission from suspension are as follows.
Fall semester – second Friday in August
Spring semester – second Friday in December
Summer semester – second Friday in April
Reactivation applications submitted after the deadline will not be considered. Students must resubmit the reactivation form and required credentials by the next deadline.
Graduate Admission
Refer to the Graduate Catalog.
English Proficiency Requirements for Non-Native Speakers of English
Admission to all levels of University study is contingent upon successful completion of English language proficiency requirements. Non-native speakers of English can provide evidence of English language proficiency through a variety of options. Admission to the on-campus English Language Center (ELC) and subsequent enrollment in English language courses at the center does not imply admission to the University. Further information for non-native speakers of English is available from the Office of Admissions (permanent residents and naturalized citizens) and from the Office of International Admissions (all non-immigrants).
Fulfillment of any one of the following will satisfy English language proficiency requirements for admission to Old Dominion University:
Submission of one of the following English proficiency test scores: TOEFL of 79 (550 paper based); IELTS overall band of 6.5; PTE score of 53; Duolingo English Test of 120; new SAT Reading Test of 26 or SAT Critical Reading of 480; GRE Verbal Reasoning of 150; GCSE or GCE “O” level pass in English language; CPE grade of A, B, or C.
Possession of a bachelor’s or master’s degree equivalent from an accredited institution located in a country where English is the native language.
Successful completion of two university- or college-level English courses at a regionally accredited U.S. institution. Successful completion is defined as obtaining a minimum grade of C (2.00) in each of these courses. These courses must be equivalent to the University’s English composition course(s) (see General Education Requirements, Lower-Division Written Communication section) and any other advanced composition or technical writing course. In addition, matriculated Old Dominion University/English Language Center students must receive prior approval from the Office of International Admissions to take English composition courses at another institution for the purpose of satisfying the English Proficiency Requirement.
Successful completion of Old Dominion University’s English Language Center (ELC) Monarch English Transition Program (formerly the ELC Bridge Program).  Successful completion is defined as satisfying the following two criteria: a.) Securing a minimum grade of B and demonstrating 85% attendance in each English Language Center class; and b.) Securing a minimum grade point average of 2.50 in academic courses taken during the Monarch English Transition Program.
Undergraduate students who choose to satisfy English language proficiency requirements through the on-campus English Language Center will be placed according to the following criteria:
Students with a TOEFL iBT score below 61 (below 500 paper-based) are automatically eligible to enroll in the ELC's Intensive English Program (IEP).  Conditional admission to the university is available for most academic programs.
Students with a TOEFL iBT score between 61 - 78 (500 - 550 paper-based) will be placed in the Monarch English Transition Program, which includes both academic and semi-intensive English Language Center course work.
English Language Center - IEP students may enter the Monarch English Transition Program directly without TOEFL test scores after satisfying the following requirements: a.) Successful completion of level 5 in the IEP program with a ‘B’ grade or higher; and b.) Receive passing scores on level exit assessments. This option is only available to students that have progressively enrolled in the Intensive English Program.
Students whose native language is not English and who have satisfied English language proficiency requirements through one of the avenues detailed above are exempt from fulfilling the foreign language requirement for general education. Students pursuing degrees that require proficiency beyond the 100 level must be certified by the Department of World Languages and Cultures to obtain a waiver of the 200-400 level courses. Native speakers are not eligible to earn credit for foreign language courses below the 300 level through coursework or external testing services such as CLEP.  These students should consult a foreign language faculty member for advising.
Transfer credit is not granted for English composition classes taken at an institution located in a non-native English-speaking country. Exceptions to this policy may be made in instances in which the University has entered a formal agreement with an overseas institution.
All undergraduate students who have not earned credit for ENGL 110C through dual enrollment, Advanced Placement (AP), the College Level Examination Program (CLEP) or transfer from another institution are required to complete the Writing Success Placement Tool (WSPT) in order to enroll in first-year writing courses. Additional information can be found in the section of this Catalog on Academic Testing and Placement. In addition, all undergraduate students must earn a grade of C or better in ENGL 110C , ENGL 211C or ENGL 231C , and the writing intensive (W) course in the major in order to graduate.
International Student Admission
International students should apply only through the Office of International Admissions.  U.S. Permanent Residents and Green Card holders should apply only through the Office of Admissions.  The primary method of application is web-based; however, a paper application is available upon request.  Along with the application and fee, officially issued academic records (transcripts) and evidence of English language proficiency are required.  As a service to applicants, the Office of International Admissions evaluates all foreign academic credentials.
Application Process and Dates
Applicants must strictly adhere to international admission and specific program deadlines to allow for the evaluation of academic and financial credentials.  Additional timeline considerations include the student visa application process and required attendance at various orientation programs conducted during the week prior to the beginning of classes.  Admission deferments are granted for up to one calendar year (two semesters); beyond this allotted time, a new application, fee and academic credentials are required.  Along with the application and fee, all academic transcripts, translations and standardized tests must be official, sealed, stamped by the institution or testing agency and sent directly to the Office of International Admissions at Old Dominion University (CEEB code 005126). Officiating authorities include an institution’s Registrar or Principle of Exams.  When English is not the language of instruction, academic transcripts and course descriptions are required in one's native language and officially translated into English.  Photocopies, notarized copies, or faxed copies of required official documents will not be accepted. Certified translations by a licensed or professional translator must accompany academic documents not written in English. Translations of official documents completed by the student/family member/friend will not be accepted. Credentials submitted during the application process become the property of Old Dominion University and cannot be returned.
Transfer of Undergraduate Course Credit
The determination of the equivalency and number of undergraduate transfer credits to be awarded for post-secondary work completed at a foreign institution is based on grades, credit value assigned per course (or number of hours per week spent in class) and the duration (in weeks) per course. All transfer credit policies listed in the Transfer Admission section of this catalog are parallel and apply to the transfer of credit from non-U.S. institutions. It is the responsibility of the student to provide this information to the Office of International Admissions. Course descriptions or syllabi must be officially translated into English.  The Office of International Admissions may provide the transfer credit evaluation upon admission; however, the final evaluation may be determined by the academic department upon the student's enrollment.
F-1 & J-1 Student Visas
Students seeking an F-1 or J-1 non-immigrant student visa must demonstrate to both Old Dominion University and the U.S. consulate the financial ability to cover all expenses related to study and living in the U.S. Funding requirements include tuition, health insurance, living and personal expenses for the first year of study, in addition to a reasonable expectation of funding for the remaining years of study.  Old Dominion University issues forms I-20 (F-1) or DS-2019 (J-1) for the nine-month academic year with the submission of Old Dominion University’s Financial Affidavit of Support, along with any corresponding original, bank issued financial statements or financial sponsorship guarantees.
Search catalog
