Health and Physical Education (HPE)
HPE 200 Foundations of Education, Physical Education and Health (3 Credit Hours)
Teacher candidates gain insight into the techniques, methodology, and philosophy of field-based health and physical education teachers. Teacher candidates will be expected to observe and participate in the teaching of simple lessons. This course requires a completed ODU clearance/background check prior to entering a school or community agency. Visit: odu.edu/oce for clearance procedures. If students do not have the clearance by the first week of classes, they will be dropped. This course requires a 20 hour placement in an elementary setting.
HPE 218 Aquatics and Outdoor Education (2 Credit Hours)
Teacher candidates gain insight into the techniques, methodology, and philosophy of field-based health and physical education teachers. Teacher candidates will be expected to observe and participate in the teaching of simple lessons.
Prerequisites: open to PE - Teacher Prep majors only
HPE 220 Teaching of Team Sports (3 Credit Hours)
This course covers skills and strategies of team sports, where opposing teams interact directly and simultaneously to achieve an objective. The team sports will be broken down into the components of territory, net/wall, and fielding/run scoring games. The student teacher will become familiar with teaching and organizational techniques appropriate for each activity. Emphasis is placed on a tactical approach and knowledge of sport specific skills, game strategy, rules, teaching facilitation, organization, and demonstration of different parts of a lesson.
Prerequisites: open to PE-Teacher Preparation majors only
HPE 222 Teaching Individual Sports and Dance (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed as both a laboratory and methods class in which the student learns skills and strategies of pickleball, bowling, badminton, golf, tennis, gymnastics, and dance. It is designed to develop knowledge, understanding, and attitudes of fundamental movements. The student teacher will become familiar with teaching and organizational techniques appropriate for each activity. Emphasis is placed on a tactical approach and knowledge of specific skills, game strategy, rules, teaching facilitation, organization, and demonstration of different parts of a lesson.
Prerequisites: open to PE - Teacher Prep majors only
HPE 295 Topics in Physical Education (1-3 Credit Hours)
This course provides an opportunity for in-depth study of selected topics in physical education.
Prerequisites: sophomore standing and approval of program advisor
HPE 300 Teaching Elementary Physical Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to acquaint the teacher candidate with elementary age children, their characteristics, interests, needs, and learning styles. Observation, analysis, and prescription of motor skills, curriculum design using skill themes and movement concepts are aimed at providing the teacher candidate with an increased understanding of how these actions directly relate to the process of effective teaching. Includes a 15 hour field experience.
Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C and HPE 200
HPE 301W Methods and Materials in Teaching Physical Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to acquaint the teacher candidate with the current theories, techniques, and practices utilized in teaching physical education at the secondary level. Discussions will focus on the various age group characteristics, interests, needs and learning styles as related to a school setting. Observation, analysis, and prescription of motor skills, movement concepts, instructional techniques, and curriculum models are aimed at providing the professional educator with an increased understanding of how these factors directly relate to a process of effective teaching.  This writing intensive course includes a 15 hour field experience.
Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C and HPE 200
HPE 308 Driver Education Foundations of Traffic Safety (3 Credit Hours)
The intent of the course is to develop a thorough understanding of the highway transportation systems, the complexity of the driving task, and factors contributing to performance of highway users (e.g. attitudes and skills) necessary to develop competent drivers.  The course will provide prospective teachers with the essential knowledge and skills to effectively deliver course content as an endorsed driver education trainer.
Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in ENGL 110C or instructor permission
Pre- or corequisite: HPE 309
HPE 309 Principles and Methodologies of Classroom and In-Car Instruction (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides teacher candidates with an overview of teaching methods and effective practices for driver education instruction with a focus on teaching skills. An emphasis is placed on program organization, administration, classroom instruction, single car instruction, multiple-car range instruction, simulation and evaluation. A minimum of 20 hours behind-the-wheel supervised teaching experiences.
Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in ENGL 110C or instructor permission
Pre- or corequisite: HPE 308
HPE 317 Human Growth & Motor Development (3 Credit Hours)
This course is an examination of the physical growth and motor development of the human being over the life span. Emphasis is on the assessment of physical and cognitive development, particularly in the K-12 ages. Theory and technique for research are discussed and the use of research findings is incorporated into the assessment materials. Attention is directed toward acquisition of basic skills, perceptual-motor development, and age-related changes.
Prerequisites: HPE 200
HPE 318 Motor Learning (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide the student with experiences in the practical application of theory related to motor learning. Feedback, transfer learning, practice, and motor control principles and concepts are addressed.
Prerequisites: HPE 200
HPE 324 Teaching Injury Care for Sports (3 Credit Hours)
This course presents the knowledge, skills, and teaching techniques essential for proper care in emergency and sport injury situations. Aspects of emergency first aid, sport specific injury recognition and care, and CPR will be covered. Upon satisfactory completion of the course and payment of certification fees, students will receive a two-year certification in first aid and CPR. Students will have the option of taking the sports first aid certification test from ASEP for coaching.
Prerequisites: HPE 200
HPE 327 Teaching of Health and Physical Education, Pre-K-8 (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to prepare classroom teachers in PreK-8 licensure programs for the teaching of health and physical education.  Appropriate content, instructional strategies, effective classroom management, and safety issues and requirements will be presented.
Prerequisites: junior standing
HPE 368 Coaching Internship (6 Credit Hours)
Final field placement required for all students with an emphasis in a coaching minor. Students will be placed in an athletic coaching environment to gain experience in personal communication, technique instruction, practice organization and administrative duties required of the specific sport of their emphasis. Placement of internship subject to instructor approval. Minimum of 200 clock hours (hours to be arranged).
Prerequisites: Senior standing and HPE 409 , HPE 415 , and HPE 456
HPE 400 Management Skills for Teaching Health and Physical Education (3 Credit Hours)
Foundations in psychological, sociological, and academic needs of students, with specific focus on management skills in open classroom and sport settings. Specialized safety concerns and environmental considerations are also addressed. Lesson planning, goal setting, and movement formations unique to HPE activities are included.
Prerequisites: HPE 200
HPE 402/502 Methods and Materials in Health Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course will enable teacher candidates to gain insight into the techniques, methodology, and philosophy of field-based health and physical education. Teacher candidates will be expected to observe and participate in the teaching of simple lessons.
Prerequisites: HPE 200
HPE 404/504 Adapted Physical Education (4 Credit Hours)
Students will become acquainted with the practices and researching of different disabilities, the learning modes of the exceptional child, and IDEA (the law that advocates free and appropriate education). The course will also examine how to work within the ecosystem surrounding a child with disabilities. A vital component of the course will be the practical application of theory.
Prerequisites: HPE 200
HPE 406/506 Tests and Measurement in Physical Education and Health (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to acquaint the student with tests and measurement in the fields of health and physical education, test construction, scoring, and methods of using results.
Prerequisites: junior standing
HPE 409/509 Physiology of Exercise (3 Credit Hours)
An investigation into the physiological adjustments of the human organism to exercise, including systematic and biochemical molecular changes. Major areas of concern include neuromuscular, metabolic, and cardiorespiratory changes during exercise and the influence of such variables as nutrition, drugs, environment, age, sex, training and body weight.
Prerequisites: BIOL 240 or BIOL 250
HPE 415 Principles of Coaching Management (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide students with a basic knowledge of the coaching profession. Special emphasis will be placed on establishing a sound coaching philosophy, selecting a coaching style, desirable qualities of a coach, ethics and the coach, roles of the head coach, planning and organizing for games and practices, coaching pedagogy, off-season planning, final preparations for the season, and issues and problems related to coaching and recruiting athletes.
Prerequisites: Junior standing
HPE 430/530 Nutrition and Fitness Education (3 Credit Hours)
The study of techniques for the teaching of nutrition and health-related fitness. Content to be covered includes nutrition and various aspects of fitness training appropriate for the teaching of PreK-12 physical education and health.
Prerequisites: HPE 200 and HPE 402
HPE 456 Sports Psychology (3 Credit Hours)
Study of the psychological bases of coaching strategies and methodologies. Emphasis is placed on applying knowledge in field settings.
Prerequisites: Junior standing
HPE 469/569 Practicum Experience and Instructional Planning in Health and Physical Education (3 Credit Hours)
Instructional planning coupled with a clinical experience that allows the teaching candidate to teach and observe professionals in a field-based setting. Portfolio development, reflective assessment of teaching, and student assessment techniques will be emphasized. This course requires a completed ODU clearance/background check prior to entering a school or community agency. Visit: https://www.odu.edu/oce for clearance procedures. If students do not have the clearance by the first week of classes, they will be dropped.
Prerequisites: HPE 200 and admission into teacher education program
HPE 480 Teacher Candidate Seminar (1 Credit Hour)
Study and group discussion of problems growing out of the student teaching (teacher candidate internship) experience.
Prerequisites: acceptance into teacher education and approval of the program advisor
HPE 485 Teacher Candidate Internship (12 Credit Hours)
A culminating experience that provides a field-based application of effective techniques in behavior, management, instructional strategies, and the development of professional attributes in K-12 school setting.  This course requires a completed ODU clearance/background check prior to entering a school or community agency. Visit: https://www.odu.edu/oce for clearance procedures. If students do not have the clearance by the first week of classes, they will be dropped.
Prerequisites: acceptance into teacher education, completion of approved program,  passing scores on the appropriate PRAXIS II content examination, and an approved application for Teacher Candidate Internship
HPE 497 Topics in Health and Physical Education (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of specialized topics in health and physical education.
Prerequisites: permission of the instructor
HPE 498 Topics in Health and Physical Education (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of specialized topics in health and physical education.
Prerequisites: permission of the instructor
HPE 502 Methods and Materials in Health Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course will enable teacher candidates to gain insight into the techniques, methodology, and philosophy of field-based health and physical education. Teacher candidates will be expected to observe and participate in the teaching of simple lessons.
HPE 504 Adapted Physical Education (3 Credit Hours)
Students will become acquainted with the practices and researching of different disabilities, the learning modes of the exceptional child, and IDEA (the law that advocates free and appropriate education). The course will also examine how to work within the ecosystem surrounding a child with disabilities. A vital component of the course will be the practical application of theory.
HPE 506 Tests and Measurement in Physical Education and Health (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to acquaint the student with tests and measurement in the fields of health and physical education, test construction, scoring, and methods of using results.
HPE 509 Exercise Physiology (3 Credit Hours)
An investigation into the physiological adjustments of the human organism to exercise, including systematic and biochemical molecular changes. Major areas of concern include neuromuscular, metabolic, and cardiorespiratory changes during exercise and the influence of such variables as nutrition, drugs, environment, age, sex, training and body weight.
Prerequisites: BIOL 240 or BIOL 250
HPE 530 Nutrition and Fitness Education (3 Credit Hours)
The study of techniques for the teaching of nutrition and health-related fitness. Content to be covered includes nutrition and various aspects of fitness training appropriate for the teaching of PreK-12 physical education and health.
HPE 569 Practicum Experience and Instructional Planning in Health and Physical Education (3 Credit Hours)
A clinical experience that allows the teaching candidate to teach and observe professionals in a field-based setting. Portfolio development, reflective assessment of teaching, and student assessment techniques will be emphasized. This course requires a completed ODU clearance/background check prior to entering a school or community agency. Visit: www.odu.edu/TES for clearance procedures. If students do not have the clearance by the first week of classes, they will be dropped.
Prerequisites: HPE 200 and admission into teacher education program
HPE 587 Teacher Candidate Seminar (1 Credit Hour)
Study and group discussion of problems growing out of the student teaching (teacher candidate internship) experience. Students must pass Praxis II to complete this course.
Prerequisites: acceptance into teacher education and approval of the program advisor
HPE 601 Adapted Physical Education Design and Supervision (3 Credit Hours)
This course is divided into three sections. The first section deals with learning how to administer and interpret several evaluation tools. The second section concentrates on developing computer, videotaping, and other technology skills for adapted PE. The third section focuses on overall supervision of adapted PE programs in various school and institutional environments.
HPE 607 Movement Analysis of Individual and Team Sports (3 Credit Hours)
This laboratory and methods class focuses on the skills and strategies of teaching individual sports (e.g., bowling, badminton, golf, and tennis) and team sports (e.g., football, basketball, volleyball, and softball), using a tactical approach.
HPE 609 Principles of Movement Analysis in Dance and Rhythmic Activities for Physical Education (3 Credit Hours)
The course is designed to help teachers and coaches improve their skills in analyzing movement skills in dance and rhythmic activities. Such skill analysis is necessary to effectively diagnose movement deficiencies, prescribe techniques for improving performance, and modifying activities for the adaptive program.
HPE 636 Research Problems in Health & Physical Education (3 Credit Hours)
Practice in the use of statistical and analytical techniques in solving problems in health and physical education; supervised student research.
HPE 668 Internship in Health & Physical Education (1-6 Credit Hours)
Designed to provide detailed practical experience (400 clock hours) in a health and physical education field setting.
Prerequisites: completion of 75% of graduate work
HPE 680 Problems in Health Education (3 Credit Hours)
Problems in teaching health education on the elementary and secondary level; family life education, substance use and abuse, and mental and emotional health.
HPE 695 Topics in Health & Physical Education (1-3 Credit Hours)
Selected topic courses in health and physical education.
HPE 697 Independent Study In Health & Physical Education (1-3 Credit Hours)
Investigations in health, physical education. Problems approved in advance are investigated under the supervision of the faculty advisor.
HPE 698 Thesis (3 Credit Hours)
Thesis.
HPE 699 Thesis (3 Credit Hours)
Thesis.
HPE 704 Advanced Studies in Adapted Physical Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides experiences of teaching adapted physical education content in lecture and gymnasium settings. Students will develop an understanding of a broad spectrum of disability related content that is applicable to physical education, and gain a deep knowledge of specific topics within disability studies. General and disability specific teaching strategies will be discussed.
HPE 718 Applied Learning and Coaching Theory (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines applied theories of learning and coaching in sport and physical education. Emphasis will be placed on understanding the differing coaching/learning theories and strategies, designing effective practice and game plans, and learning the different learning levels and styles through observing, analyzing, and critiquing skills. Current research and practice will be emphasized.
HPE 719 Planning and Administration in PE and Sport Programs (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide in-depth information about the planning and administrative aspects of sport/physical education programs. Content includes, but is not limited to, teaching/training planning, safety and injury prevention, behavioral management, field/facility maintenance, budgetary considerations, public relations, and legal and risk management procedures associated with coaching/teaching PE.
HPE 720 Curriculum Development in Physical Education (3 Credit Hours)
A course designed to acquaint the student with the basic principles and practices in curriculum development. Curriculum development methodologies for both K-12 and college curricula will be addressed.
HPE 721 Motivational Issues in Sports (3 Credit Hours)
Motivational and psychological issues relate with sport performance enhancement, athlete/student wellbeing, and clinical issues with specific populations.
HPE 740 Motor Learning and Development (3 Credit Hours)
This course covers a combination of motor development and motor learning topics. The course information and structure are designed to optimize practitioners’ effectiveness in the classroom and on the field via practical application of motor behavior theories, concepts and principles. Attention is directed toward understanding the acquisition of skills from the fundamental, initial level to the sport-specific, more advanced level, toward optimal age and skill-level practices and developing appropriate motor skill assessments for infants through older adulthood. Past and current research findings are incorporated into each of the course topics.
HPE 745 Assessment/Evaluation and Technology in Sport/PE (3 Credit Hours)
This course covers assessment/evaluation theory and practices in PE/Sport. Multiple evaluation designs and techniques in different domains such as teaching/coaching, learning, and performance will be discussed along with technology applications in PE/Sport.
HPE 804 Advanced Studies in Adapted Physical Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides experiences of teaching adapted physical education content in lecture and gymnasium settings. Students will develop an understanding of a broad spectrum of disability related content that is applicable to physical education, and gain a deep knowledge of specific topics within disability studies. General and disability specific teaching strategies will be discussed.
HPE 805 Advanced Qualitative Research in Adapted Physical Education (3 Credit Hours)
Qualitative research seeks to make sense of, or interpret, the meaning of social phenomena in the natural setting, filtering through the multiple lens of race, social class, ethnicity, language, gender, and ability/disability. The aims of this course are twofold: (1) to highlight the contribution of qualitative inquiry to our understanding of the theory, research, and practice in adapted physical education, and (2) to provide basic skills and understanding necessary for doctoral students in adapted physical education to interpret and conduct qualitative research.
Prerequisites: FOUN 812
HPE 819 Planning and Administration in PE and Sport Programs (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide in-depth information about the planning and administrative aspects of sport/physical education programs. Content includes, but is not limited to, teaching/training planning, safety and injury prevention, behavioral management, field/facility maintenance, budgetary considerations, public relations, and legal and risk management procedures associated with coaching/teaching PE.
HPE 820 Curriculum Development in Physical Education (3 Credit Hours)
A course designed to acquaint the student with the basic principles and practices in curriculum development. Curriculum development methodologies for both K-12 and college curricula will be addressed.
HPE 840 Motor Learning and Development (3 Credit Hours)
This course covers a combination of motor development and motor learning topics. The course information and structure are designed to optimize practitioners' effectiveness in the classroom and on the field via practical application of motor behavior theories, concepts and principles. Attention is directed toward understanding the acquisition of skills from the fundamental, initial level to the sport-specific, more advanced level, toward optimal age and skill-level practices and developing appropriate motor skill assessments for infants through older adulthood. Past and current research findings are incorporated into each of the course topics.
HPE 845 Assessment/Evaluation and Technology in Sport/PE (3 Credit Hours)
This course covers assessment/evaluation theory and practices in PE/Sport. Multiple evaluation designs and techniques in different domains such as teaching/coaching, learning, and performance will be discussed along with technology applications in PE/Sport.
HPE 846 Advanced Quantitative Research in Adapted Physical Activity (3 Credit Hours)
This quantitative research method course delves into two aspects: (1) to understand the quantitative study design and evidence hierarchy as they relate to research and practices in adapted physical activity, and (2) to provide skills and understanding necessary for doctoral students in adapted physical activity to interpret and conduct quantitative research.
Human Movement Sciences (HMS)
HMS 200S Personal Health and Wellness (3 Credit Hours)
This course will take a holistic approach to discuss and apply the dimensions of wellness as related to personal health. Dimensions of wellness covered will include physical, emotional, social, financial, intellectual, environmental, spiritual, and occupational. Students will evaluate how lifestyle, environment, and heredity impact each dimension of wellness. Emphasis will be placed on identifying how health behaviors impact each dimension of wellness and overall quality of life. In addition, the course will allow students to explore their own personal health and learn how to develop and implement behavioral and environmental strategies to improve their wellness.
Physical Education (PE)
PE 101+ Swim Conditioning (1 Credit Hour)
Students will discuss and learn the training process including advantages and benefits of swimming, principles of training, training procedures, evaluation and motivation, and minor annoyances. Stroke mechanics and improvement and information for triathletes.
PE 102+ Beginning Swimming (1 Credit Hour)
Development of the basic water safety skills and knowledge to make one reasonably safe in the water.
PE 103+ Intermediate Swimming (1 Credit Hour)
Instruction in all strokes will be covered.
Prerequisites: must be comfortable in deep water
PE 104+ Lifeguard Training (2 Credit Hours)
Development of the skills and knowledge designed to save the life of another in the event of an emergency in the water.  Red Cross certification.
PE 105+ Water Safety Instruction (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide the student with knowledge and skills in water safety and teaching techniques for certification to teach swimming, lifesaving, rescue and water safety courses.  Red Cross Water Safety Instructor Certificate upon successful completion.
Prerequisites: must be at least 17, in sound physical condition, and have the ability to perform skills in the level VI ARC swim course
PE 112+ Yoga (1-2 Credit Hours)
The 1-credit option of this course focuses on yoga postures and breathing exercises. The 2-credit option provides a foundation for the understanding and practice of Hatha yoga in its complete form. Course covers yoga postures, breathing exercises, philosophy, and meditation.
PE 115+ Introduction to Rock Climbing (1 Credit Hour)
This course is designed to guide students through several processes in rock climbing.  Students will be able to properly fit a harness, tie in to the system, use passive and active belay devices, and perform basic rescues.  The class will also focus on proper climbing technique and injury prevention.  Additionally, rock climbing facility administration will be discussed.
PE 117+ Accessible Fitness and Wellness (1-2 Credit Hours)
Designed for students who self-identify as having social, cognitive, emotional, psychological, or physical limitations who would benefit from a small group and/or individualized fitness/nutritional training program. Students will learn the basic principles about cardiovascular/aerobic training and resistance/weight training to increase flexibility, balance and overall fitness. Upon completion, students should be able to plan and implement a personal, lifelong fitness program based on their individual needs, abilities, goals and interests.  Course will also include classes on nutrition to increase overall wellness.
PE 118+ Weight Training (1 Credit Hour)
Designed to allow students an individualized weight training program.  The program will include use of free weights, universal, and other appropriate tools for the variety of weight training differences.
PE 134+ Beginning Golf (1 Credit Hour)
The fundamentals of golf, stance, grip, swing, rules, and etiquette are presented.  Driving range and golf course may be used.  Students pay all fees.
PE 140+ Beginning Self-Defense (1 Credit Hour)
The student is introduced to the various practical skills and methods of self-defense. Judo, Aikido, Jujutsu, and Karate are combined to explore the most effective means to defend oneself.
PE 141+ Intermediate Self-Defense (1 Credit Hour)
This course is designed to give the student further instruction and practice in the various practical skills and methods of self-defense.
Prerequisites: PE 140+
PE 142+ Beginning Karate (1 Credit Hour)
This course is designed to give the traditional Karate training ('Art of Empty Hand') to the beginning student. It emphasizes the traditional mode of training with mental and physical discipline. Formal Kata, defensive skills, punches, kicks, and blocking techniques are introduced.
PE 143+ Intermediate Karate (1 Credit Hour)
This course is designed to give the student further instruction and practice in traditional Karate.
Prerequisites: PE 142+
PE 144+ Advanced Karate (1 Credit Hour)
This course is designed to introduce further instruction and practice in traditional martial art aspects of Karate-doh. Philosophical understanding and high level of skill proficiency are emphasized.
Prerequisites: PE 143+
PE 145+ Theory of Advanced Karatedo (1 Credit Hour)
This course is designed to provide the theoretical framework of Karatedo that embodies the higher principle of physical and mental dynamics and aims to achieve the advanced skills in Karatedo.
Prerequisites: PE 142+, PE 143+, PE 144+ and/or equivalent proficiency level
PE 146+ Beginning Aikido (1 Credit Hour)
Course is designed to introduce the fundamental dynamics of Aikido principle. It contains the fundamental skills in body dynamics, body movements, safety landing, defensive pattern drills, and overall understanding of Aikido as a classical art form. Course provide comprehensive information on the philosophical and aesthetic aspects of Aikido.
PE 147+ Intermediate Aikido (1 Credit Hour)
Course is designed to introduce the intermediate level of Aikido dynamics. It contains the basics of fundamental skills in body dynamics, body movements, safety landing, intermediate level of defensive pattern drills, and overall understanding of Aikido as a classical art form.
Prerequisites: PE 146+
PE 148+ Advanced Aikido (1 Credit Hour)
Course is designed to introduce the advanced level of Aikido dynamics. It contains training in advanced skills in body dynamics, body movements, defensive pattern drills, and overall understanding of Aikido theory and application as a classical art form.
Prerequisites: PE 147+
PE 149+ Theory of Advanced Aikido (1 Credit Hour)
This course is designed to provide the theoretical framework of Aikido that embodies the mental and physical dynamics of the martial arts discipline of Aikido.
Prerequisites: PE 146+, PE 147+, and PE 148+
PE 150+ Beginning Judo (1 Credit Hour)
An introduction to Judo including the techniques of throws, holdings, lockings, and pinnings. Philosophy and cultural aspects of Sport Judo are also covered.
PE 151+ Intermediate Judo (1 Credit Hour)
An intermediate course in Sport Judo covering intermediate skills and strategies.
Prerequisites: PE 150+
PE 171+ Physical Conditioning (1 Credit Hour)
This course addresses the basic principles of progressive weight training.  Objectives of the course include knowledge of various weight-training systems, proper use of weight-training equipment, and effective record-keeping to monitor individual progress.
PE 174+ Aerobics I (1-2 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to introduce the student to a complete physical fitness program that strengthens the heart and lungs, and tones up the muscles.
PE 175+ Zumba (1 Credit Hour)
Zumba is a Latin inspired, dance-fitness class that incorporates Latin and International music with dance movements.  It is a high calorie-burning fitness class that features fast and slow rhythms.  The student will participate in instructor led routines.  This class will include discussion of Zumba's history and basic four rhythms.  No dance experience necessary.
PE 176+ Pilates (1 Credit Hour)
Students will understand the basic principles of Pilates and will be able to demonstrate the ability of performing beginning and intermediate Pilates exercises with correct form and technique.
PE 196+ Topics in Health and Physical Education (1-3 Credit Hours)
A variety of new and innovative courses in lifetime physical activities are offered such as advanced theory class in martial arts, advanced Iaido, self defense seminar, yoga, cross country skiing, yacht racing, racquetball, nautilus, swim conditioning, water safety instructor, scuba and aerobic dance.
PE 497/597 Topics in Health and Physical Education (1-3 Credit Hours)
This course provides an opportunity for in-depth study of selected topics in health and physical education.
Prerequisites: junior standing and approval of program advisor
Park, Recreation and Tourism Studies (PRTS)
PRTS 200 Backpacking (2 Credit Hours)
Students will finish this course with the ability to demonstrate competency in and teach fundamental camping skills, including backpacking, cooking, travel techniques, Leave No Trace skills, and associated safety skills.  Additionally, students will demonstrate an increased understanding of issues related to the administration of federally-managed public lands, such as those used in this class, as they relate to recreation and other uses.  An overnight field tip is required.
PRTS 210S Leisure and Human Behavior (3 Credit Hours)
This course will examine leisure and its relationship to human behavior from historical and contemporary perspectives.  The course will explore fundamental principles, theories, and philosophies of recreation, play, and leisure and how they relate to health and wellness, quality of life, personal identity, work, the economy, and social institutions. The role of leisure in one’s life will be examined in depth with a focus on positive and negative leisure behaviors, trends in world culture, and how societal factors influence leisure behavior.
PRTS 212 Program Planning and Development in Parks, Recreation, and Tourism (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to help students understand and develop their program planning and development skills. Theories and techniques in relation to programs in parks, recreation organizations, and hospitality and tourism businesses are explored. The course will examine the planning process, including needs assessment, risk assessment, staffing, marketing, budgeting, and implementation.
PRTS 251 Introduction to Park and Recreation Management (3 Credit Hours)
This course introduces students to the field of park and recreation management, including public, non-profit, and private/commercial service delivery organizations. Career opportunities in each of these sectors will also be explored.
PRTS 271 Introduction to Tourism & Hospitality Management (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to present an introduction to the tourism industry.  Emphasis is placed on historical and technological development within tourism, the different components of the industry (transportation, accommodations, attractions, events), and career opportunities in tourism, events, and hospitality.
PRTS 285 Diversity in Parks, Recreation and Tourism (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed as an introduction to the responsibilities of public, private, and commercial leisure service delivery systems in relation to their diverse constituents. The objective of this course is to increase students’ awareness and knowledge of the needs of members of ethnic and racial groups, people of diverse socioeconomic status, women, older adults, members of the LGBTQIA+ community, and people with disabilities. Moreover, the course introduces students to concepts and factors that influence the delivery of recreation and tourism services to diverse populations.
PRTS 302 Facilitating the Recreation Experience (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to help students develop recreation facilitation and leadership skills. The course will focus on leadership theories, recreation leadership techniques, and group dynamics. Students will practice group leadership techniques through in-class activities and community engaged learning.
Prerequisites: restricted to Park, Recreation, and Tourism Studies majors
PRTS 332 Recreation Administration (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines personnel, financial and organizational management principles, practices, and policies related to the recreation industry. The course explores general personnel management, organizational management, and the budget process. Students will learn about revenue sources, budget formats, and managing full-time, part-time, and seasonal personnel.
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
PRTS 350 Lodging Operations (3 Credit Hours)
This course teaches the knowledge and skills needed to navigate lodging operations in the hospitality industry and provides students with a comprehensive understanding of the fundamental principles and practices associated with the successful operation of lodging facilities.
Prerequisites: PRTS 271
PRTS 366 Internship Seminar (1 Credit Hour)
Agency field placement is required of all students in Park, Recreation and Tourism Studies. Seminar will include resume and cover letter writing skills, internship requirements, agency placement referrals, and interviewing techniques.
Prerequisites: Senior standing and permission of the instructor; restricted to Parks, Recreation and Tourism Studies majors
PRTS 368 Internship (9 Credit Hours)
Supervised agency placement is required of all students in the Park, Recreation and Tourism Studies program.  Placement must fulfill all professionally appropriate certification standards.  Minimum of 400 clock hours. Students must have an overall GPA of 2.00 and a major GPA of 2.00 at the start of the internship.
Prerequisites: PRTS 366 , senior standing, permission of the instructor, and completion of all coursework; restricted to Park, Recreation and Tourism Studies majors
PRTS 369 Practicum in Parks, Recreation and Tourism Studies (3 Credit Hours)
Selected field-based experiences in a park, recreation and tourism service setting. Minimum of 200 clock hours.
Prerequisites: Junior standing and permission of the instructor; restricted to Park, Recreation, and Tourism Studies majors only
PRTS 404 Recreation Resource Management (3 Credit Hours)
This course addresses outdoor recreation and natural management using a recreation ecology framework. Physical and social impacts resulting from outdoor recreation in parks and protected areas will be discussed, as well as visitor use management strategies to address those impacts.
Prerequisites: Junior standing
PRTS 405 Outdoor Recreation (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to increase knowledge, skills, techniques, policies and procedures related to outdoor recreation. Students are required to participate in outdoor recreation experiences through the Outdoor Adventure Program and on their own.
Prerequisites: junior standing or permission of the instructor
PRTS 406 Outdoor Leadership and Environmental Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to examine the history, development, and trends in outdoor leadership and environmental education, including the development of curriculum concepts that foster an environmentally literate citizenry. Leadership and teaching techniques for successful utilization of the outdoors as a classroom will be explored. Students are required to participate in outdoor recreation experiences through the Outdoor Adventure Program and on their own.
Prerequisites: PRTS 251 , PRTS 302 , PRTS 405 , and junior standing or permission of the instructor
PRTS 433 Camp Administration (3 Credit Hours)
This course will cover organization and administration of camp programs and facilities including history, trends, staffing, client needs, finance, marketing, accreditation, research and legal issues. Primary emphasis will be on organized camp programs and their impact on youth and society.
Prerequisites: junior standing or permission of instructor
PRTS 441 Marketing of Hospitality Services (3 Credit Hours)
This course explores theories and concepts related to marketing and sales within successful service-oriented hospitality and tourism businesses. Course topics include marketing and sales planning, techniques, strategies, and management.
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of instructor
PRTS 461 Hospitality Leadership and Management (3 Credit Hours)
This course explores the meaning and practice of leadership and management in the hospitality and tourism industry. The course links theoretical concepts to the application of best practice in various aspects of administration. Students will also learn about current trends, research, and national and international case studies
Prerequisites: PRTS 271 and Junior standing or permission of instructor
PRTS 465 Hospitality Revenue Management (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to equip students with a practical understanding of the principles involved in the revenue management of hospitality businesses. By blending theoretical concepts with real-world applications, students will learn how to ethically apply these techniques to enhance business outcomes in a dynamic industry. The Certification in Hotel Industry Analytics (CHIA), which is the only hotel-related certification that recognizes the skill and knowledge that these professionals have, is embedded in this course to boost the career prospects of students.
Prerequisites: junior standing or permission of the instructor
PRTS 475 Sustainable Management in Parks, Recreation, and Tourism (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the principles and practices of sustainable management within park, recreation, and tourism settings. The course explores the complexities of sustainable management and best practices for achieving economic, environmental, social, and cultural sustainability.
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
PRTS 482W Evaluation in Parks, Recreation, and Tourism (3 Credit Hours)
The purpose of this course is to provide students with basic knowledge in research and evaluation within the park, recreation and tourism field. Specific focus is placed on applying research and evaluation concepts through a research or evaluation project within the field.  Topics include evaluation criteria development, quantitative and qualitative research methods, and utilizing study results to make practical recommendations for park, recreation, and tourism organizations.  This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: a grade of C or better in ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C , and junior standing
Pre- or corequisite: PRTS 212
PRTS 491 Festival, Meeting, and Event Management (3 Credit Hours)
This course advances students’ knowledge of the marketing, planning, and management of festivals, meetings and conventions, and special events in tourism destinations. Students will learn strategies for successfully planning, marketing, organizing, and implementing a variety of events.
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
PRTS 495 Topics (1-3 Credit Hours)
This course provides an opportunity for in-depth study of selected topics in the variety of areas comprising parks, recreation and tourism studies.
Prerequisites: junior standing
PRTS 497 Independent Study (1-3 Credit Hours)
Individualized instruction to include research, specialized studies, or other scholarly writing.
Prerequisites: junior standing or permission of the instructor
Special Education (SPED)
SPED 313 Fundamentals of Human Growth and Development: Birth through Adolescence (3 Credit Hours)
This course contributes to an understanding of the physical, social, emotional, speech and language, and intellectual development of infants, toddlers, children, and adolescents. Furthermore, it promotes the ability to use this understanding in guiding learning experiences and relating meaningfully to preK-12, special education, and secondary education students. The interaction of infants, toddlers, children, and adolescents with economic, social, racial, ethnic, religious, physical, and intellectual differences is explored, as well as developmental issues related to giftedness or disability and the impact of family disruptions, child abuse, and substance abuse.
Prerequisites: junior standing
SPED 400/500 Foundations of Special Education: Legal Aspects and Characteristics (3 Credit Hours)
The course provides an introduction and overview of the field of special education from the perspective that it is a subsection of general education and that the field is in transition by virtue of philosophical, legislative, and programmatic changes.  Legal aspects, regulatory requirements, and critical analyses of research are addressed. The course includes a broad overview of the characteristics, identification, instructional needs, and accommodation necessary for creating appropriate educational and vocational environments for students with disabilities.
Prerequisites: junior standing
SPED 402/502 Instructional Design I: Learner Characteristics and Assessment (3 Credit Hours)
The intent of this course is to provide pre-service and in-service teachers with: (a) knowledge of the characteristics of K-12 students with learning differences who are accessing either the general curriculum or the adapted curriculum, and (b) the ability to develop knowledge and skill in the selection, administration, scoring and interpretation of standardized/norm-referenced and criterion-referenced assessments for exceptional learners. Administering formal and informal assessment tools for the development of an IEP are emphasized. The use of assessment data to improve evidence-based instruction and student performance is discussed.
Prerequisites: a grade of C- or higher in SPED 400 or a grade of B- or higher in SPED 500
SPED 403 Directed Field Experience in Special Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides variable hours of direct participation in a community or educational setting with individuals with special needs.  The course includes specific skills of program planning, implementation, evaluation and classroom management. Practicum of 45 hours required.
Prerequisites: A grade of C- or higher in SPED 400 and SPED 402 and satisfactory entry into the undergraduate teacher education program (UTEP)
SPED 404/504 Characteristics and Medical Aspects of Disabling Conditions (3 Credit Hours)
This course reviews medical conditions present among individuals with disabilities and implications for classroom instruction.
Prerequisites: SPED 400 / SPED 500
SPED 406/506 Students with Diverse Learning Needs in the General Education Classroom (3 Credit Hours)
This course introduces general education teachers to the legal aspects and educational needs of at-risk students and those with disabilities.  Emphasis is on characteristics of children with special needs and procedures for effective academic, behavioral, and social integration of these children in the general education classroom.
Prerequisites: junior standing
SPED 411/511 Classroom and Behavioral Management Techniques for Students with Diverse Needs (3 Credit Hours)
This course addresses classroom management techniques and individual interventions based upon behavioral, cognitive, affective, social, and ecological theory and practice. The course focuses on the field of applied behavior analysis, including best practices in the areas of data collection, program selection, program implementation, and data analysis. Positive behavior management, supports, and functional behavioral assessment for students with diverse learning needs will be emphasized.
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
SPED 415/515 Instructional Design II: Curricular Procedures and Individualized Education Planning (3 Credit Hours)
The intent of this course is to provide preservice and in-service teachers with: (a) knowledge of research-based instruction for PreK-12 students with disabilities and those who are gifted; (b) knowledge and skill in using data collection to make decisions about student progress, instruction, program, accommodations and teaching methodology for exceptional learners, and (c) knowledge and skill in planning, developing and implementing individual educational plans and group instruction for diverse exceptional learners who are accessing the general education curriculum and the standards of learning or the adapted education curriculum and the aligned or essentialized standards of learning.
Prerequisites: a grade of C- or higher in SPED 400 and SPED 402 or a grade of B- or higher in SPED 500 or SPED 502 , and passing scores on Praxis Core Academic Skills for Educator Tests or equivalent as prescribed by the Virginia Board of Education
SPED 417/517 Collaboration and Transitions (3 Credit Hours)
This course addresses the complex issues surrounding families and children with disabilities and transitions across the lifespan, as well as effective collaboration with families and professionals to support inclusion and/or effective early intervention services, educational services, and transition services for students at-risk and students with disabilities.  Emphasis is on successful professional collaboration and effective relationships in educational, transition, and family settings.
Prerequisites: Junior standing
Pre- or corequisite: SPED 400 / SPED 500
SPED 418/518 Instructional Strategies to Meet Diverse Learning Needs in Math (3 Credit Hours)
This course covers instructional strategies necessary to teach mathematics to students with diverse learning needs in elementary and secondary settings. Students will study and apply pedagogy-based research on how learning takes place and strategies for differentiating instruction for the unique needs of diverse learners. Students will address and apply effective research-based methodology and evaluation standards.
Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor
SPED 428/528 Instructional Strategies for Students Accessing the Adapted Curriculum (3 Credit Hours)
This course addresses the characteristics and instructional strategies of students accessing the adapted curriculum. Emphasis is on assessment, program development, academic, and functional skills instruction. This course addresses the needs of individuals with severe and/or profound multiple disabilities. 45 Hour Practicum
Prerequisites: a grade of C- or higher in SPED 400 and SPED 411 or a grade of B- or higher in SPED 500 and SPED 511 , and passing scores on the Praxis Core Academic Skills for Education Tests or equivalent as prescribed by the Virginia Board of Education
SPED 432/532 Characteristics of Students with Visual Impairments (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides an overview of the characteristics of and services to persons with visual impairments, including the impact of visual impairment on infants' and children's growth and development, child and adolescent emotional and social development, and family interaction patterns.  It considers the educational, conceptual, psycho-social, and physical implications of a visual impairment.
Prerequisites: SPED 400 / SPED 500
SPED 433/533 Braille Code (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides instruction in the development, use, and application of the Braille literary code and its implications for educational/literacy programs for students with visual disabilities.  Students will develop the skills to read and write contracted and uncontracted Braille, while acquiring instructional methodologies for teaching children who are blind to read and write.  Sources of Braille materials for educational purposes are identified.
Prerequisites: Junior standing
Pre- or corequisite: SPED 400 / SPED 500 and SPED 432 / SPED 532
SPED 434/534 Medical and Educational Implications of Visual Impairments (3 Credit Hours)
Provides an introduction to anatomy and physiology of the visual system and the educational implications of visual pathology.  Topics include anatomy of the human eye, normal visual development, pathology of the eye, examination procedures for the identification of visual pathology, and the effects of pathology on visual learning and development. Practicum requires a minimum of 25 hours.
Prerequisites: passing scores on Praxis Core Academic Skills for Educator Tests or equivalent as prescribed by the Virginia Board of Education
Pre- or corequisite: SPED 400 / SPED 500 and SPED 432 / SPED 532
SPED 435/535 Orientation and Mobility (2 Credit Hours)
Provides the foundation for understanding the components and essence of orientation and mobility.  Establishes how the need for independent travel in the blind population created the field of O&M.  Explores the philosophy and history of orientation and mobility including cane instruction, dog guides and methods of travel.  Addresses techniques in developing orientation skills and basic mobility instruction.  Motor and concept skill development are emphasized.  Practicum of 45 hours required.
Prerequisites: passing scores on Praxis Core Academic Skills for Educator Tests or equivalent as prescribed by the Virginia Board of Education
Pre- or corequisite: SPED 400 / SPED 500 and SPED 432 / SPED 532
SPED 436/536 Curriculum and Assessment of Students with Visual Impairments (3 Credit Hours)
Provides students with knowledge and understanding of the educational assessment of students with visual impairments and additional disabilities including deaf-blindness.  Students will practice assessing and planning educational programs for students with visual impairments.  Addresses assessment of technology for students with visual impairments.  Examines determination of learning needs and appropriate learning media, relationship of assessment, IEP development, and placement.  Practicum requires a minimum of 25 hours.
Prerequisites: passing scores on Praxis Core Academic Skills for Educator Tests or equivalent as prescribed by the Virginia Board of Education
Pre- or corequisite: SPED 400 / SPED 500 and SPED 432 / SPED 532
SPED 437/537 Assistive Technology for People with Sensory Impairments (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed for professionals and/or students interested in serving the visually impaired/blind population or hearing impaired/deaf population.  It is designed to heighten the awareness of participants to specific technology and resources available to enhance and improve the ability of individuals with visual and hearing impairments to succeed in school, daily living activities and employment.  Knowledge and awareness components of this course will be delivered via distance education.
Prerequisites: Junior standing
Pre- or corequisite: SPED 400 or SPED 500 and SPED 432 or SPED 532
SPED 440/540 Assistive Technology for Diverse Students (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides lectures for pre-service and in-service teachers and related service providers of special populations in the use of assistive technology (AT) devices and services, and augmentative alternative communication (AAC) systems for instructional programs and computer applications. Study will involve compliance with federal and state laws, and national and state standards related to providing assistive technology to diverse students.
Prerequisites: SPED 400 / SPED 500
SPED 441/541 Teaching Students with Severe Physical and Sensorimotor Disabilities (3 Credit Hours)
This course reviews techniques for working with students who have severe physical and sensorimotor disabilities. Course emphasis is on proper positioning and handling for students with atypical motor/muscle development who function at developmental levels between birth and five years. Practicum of 45 hours required.
Prerequisites: SPED 400 / SPED 500 and passing scores on the Praxis Core Academic Skills for Education Tests or equivalent as prescribed by the Virginia Board of Education
SPED 460/560 Teaching Preschoolers With Diverse Abilities (3 Credit Hours)
This course prepares students to create high quality learning environments for preschool children (ages 2-5 years) who have diverse strengths and needs. Students will learn how to access curricula and materials, plan for and provide evidence-based instruction, collect data for progress monitoring, and provide adaptations to the environment to support the development of children with and without disabilities. Programming that addresses multiple areas of development, such as social-emotional, communication, motor, and cognition, will be discussed, and students will complete a 10-hour preschool observation.
Prerequisites: SPED 400 or SPED 500
SPED 461/561 Developmental Assessment of Young Children with Diverse Abilities (3 Credit Hours)
This course prepares students to use recommended practices for assessing the development of young children with diverse abilities, ages birth to 5 years, in home and inclusive/classroom-based settings. Course content and discussions address the knowledge and skills needed by early intervention, early childhood, and early childhood special educators when gathering developmental information to determine a child’s eligibility, plan intervention and educational activities, and monitor progress across time. Practicum of 45 hours required.
Prerequisites: SPED 400 or SPED 500
SPED 467/567 Family-Centered Practices in Early Childhood Intervention (3 Credit Hours)
This course prepares professionals to partner with families of infants and toddlers (ages birth-three) with developmental delays and disabilities in early intervention programs. Emphasis is placed on the use of family-centered practices that support caregiver and child learning during visits in homes and other community settings. Strategies for collaborating with team members (including the family), writing Individualized Family Service Plans (IFSPs), and providing effective services that facilitate child development during natural family routines and activities will be discussed. Practicum of 45 hours required.
Prerequisites: SPED 400 or SPED 500
SPED 469/569 Communication/Language Development/Intervention for Students with Significant Disabilities (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines symbolic and non-symbolic communication/language development and acquisition.  Emphasis is on routine-based communication training, communication/language facilitation strategies, augmentative communication systems, and informal/functional communication/language assessment procedures for students in early childhood special education, students with autism, and students with multiple disabilities.
Prerequisites: a grade of C- or higher in SPED 400 or a grade of B- or higher in SPED 500
SPED 483/583 Field Experience Seminar in Special Education (1 Credit Hour)
Explores issues, problems, concerns and processes related to teaching and entering the profession of teaching.  Passing scores on the Virginia Communication and Literacy Assessment (VCLA) and Virginia Reading Assessment (VRA)/ Reading for Virginia Educators (RVE) will be required by the end of the course.
Pre- or corequisite: SPED 403
SPED 486/586 Teacher Candidate Internship for Special Endorsement (12 Credit Hours)
Seven weeks will be completed at the elementary level and seven weeks will be completed at the middle/secondary level. Students enrolled at the graduate level complete 9 credit hours.
Prerequisites: admission to ODU Teacher Education Program; completion of the approved teacher education program in the specific endorsement area; completion of SPED 483 ; departmental approval; passing scores on Praxis Core Academic Skills for Educator Tests (or equivalent as prescribed by the Virginia Board of Education); passing scores on Virginia Communication and Literacy Assessment (VCLA), the Virginia Reading Assessment (VRA)/Reading for Virginia Educators (RVE), the appropriate Praxis II content examination and endorsement program exit exam
SPED 495/595 Topics in Special Education (1-3 Credit Hours)
This course offers selected topics designed to permit small groups of qualified students to work on subjects of mutual interest in the special education field.
SPED 497 Independent Study (3 Credit Hours)
Independent study of special topics in special education for undergraduate students.
Prerequisites: Permission of instructor
Sport Management (SMGT)
SMGT 214 Introduction to Sport Management (3 Credit Hours)
Course will introduce students to the basic foundational knowledge of the sport industry, plus a wide range of career opportunities involving sport, and the various impacts of sport.
Prerequisites: A passing grade in MATH 102M or MATH 103M or MATH 162M or STAT 130M
SMGT 305 Sport Administrative Theory (3 Credit Hours)
Principles of organization and administration as they apply to managing sport organizations.  Issues  related to working with and through individuals to achieve organizational goals and objectives are discussed.
Prerequisites: SMGT 214 with a grade of C- or better
SMGT 312 Sport Sales (3 Credit Hours)
This course will teach students to learn and navigate the sport sales process.  The financial strength of a sport entity is determined by its sales ability, and through lecture, guest speakers, and applied 'real world' exercises, students will have the opportunity to obtain knowledge, skills, and experiences in sport sales that are essential for entry level positions.
Prerequisites: SMGT 214 with a grade of C- or better
SMGT 315 Sport Media and Public Relations (3 Credit Hours)
An introduction to sport media and public relations.  Special emphasis will be placed on the communications process in sport and the various mediums that can be used to convey messages.  The internal and external publics involved in sport public relations will be examined along with the steps involved in the process.
Prerequisites: SMGT 214 with a grade of C- or better, and a grade of C or better in ENGL 110C and ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C
SMGT 331 Fiscal Planning and Management in Sport and Recreation (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to examine the principles and practices of financial management in diverse recreation and sport service settings. Course will explore the basic concepts of financial planning and analysis to effectively manage a successful operation.
Prerequisites: SMGT 214 with a grade of C- or better, ACCT 201 , and MATH 102M or higher
SMGT 368 Internship (12 Credit Hours)
Culminating field-based experience required for all students with a major in sport management. Students will work with faculty in securing a placement with a sport-related organization to apply the knowledge from the classroom to real-world experiences. Minimum of 400 clock hours. Internship sites must be approved by the internship coordinator.
Prerequisites: A passing grade in SMGT 366, senior standing with a minimum of 30 earned credits in SMGT courses, a GPA of 2.0 in the major, and permission of the instructor
SMGT 369 Sport Management Practicum (3 Credit Hours)
A practical experience allowing sport management pre-internship students to shadow and observe sport industry professionals in a field-based setting. Portfolio development, reflective assessment of management, observation techniques and internship requirements will be emphasized.
Prerequisites: SMGT 214 with a grade of C- or better, sophomore standing or higher, restricted to sport management majors or minors, and permission of the instructor
SMGT 414 Sport Marketing (3 Credit Hours)
Course will examine competitive market strategies as they apply to the sport industry.  Emphasis will be placed on the relationship between sport products and sport markets, the communication mix, market research, and the role of strategic planning for business sponsorship.
Prerequisites: SMGT 214 with a grade of C- or better and junior standing
SMGT 415 Principles of Coaching Management (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide students with a basic knowledge of the coaching profession.  Special emphasis will be placed on establishing a sound coaching philosophy, selecting a coaching style, desirable qualities of a coach, ethics and the coach, roles of the head coach, planning and organizing for games and practices, coaching pedagogy, off-season planning, final preparations for the season, and issues and problems related to coaching and recruiting athletes.
Prerequisites: ENGL 110C
SMGT 421 Legal Aspects in Recreation and Sport Management (3 Credit Hours)
This course presents an overview of the increasing effect the law is having on amateur athletics, professional sports and recreation programs.
Prerequisites: SMGT 214 with a grade of C- or better and junior standing
SMGT 432 Sport Facility and Event Management (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides an examination of the principles and practices of sport facility and event management.  Special emphasis will be placed on management functions related to facility planning and supervision, financing, site design, public relations, security, operations, maintenance, programming, box office operations and concessions.  This course is designed to introduce students to principles and practices of planning, budgeting, operating, scheduling, managing, and evaluating events in the sport industry.  Students will acquire an in-depth knowledge about the specialized field of event management and become familiar with management techniques and strategies required for successful promotion, implementation and evaluation of special events within a sport context.
Prerequisites: SMGT 214 with a grade of C- or better and junior standing
SMGT 450W Ethics and Morality in Sport (3 Credit Hours)
This writing intensive course offers an introduction to ethics and morality within the context of sports. It examines the values of sport and the basis for ethical decision making.  Readings, case studies and class discussion are used to explore the moral significance of sport.  This course is designed to foster critical thinking skills and to improve written and verbal communication skills through analysis of philosophical and ethical issues associated with sport.
Prerequisites: SMGT 214 with a grade of C- or better, a grade of C or better in ENGL 110C and ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C and Junior standing
SMGT 455 Sport in Contemporary Society (3 Credit Hours)
Discusses the phenomenon of sport as it represents one of the most pervasive social institutions today.  The major theme of this course is to demonstrate how sport reflects and enforces the beliefs, values, and ideologies of society.  Emphasis is placed on changing attitudes and current trends in the world of sport.  The course will be taught from sociological and philosophical perspectives.
Prerequisites: SMGT 214 with a grade of C- or better, and junior standing
SMGT 456/556 Sport Psychology (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines psychological theories and research related to sport and exercise behavior.  The course is designed to introduce students to the field by providing a broad overview of topics associated with sport and exercise psychology.
Prerequisites: ENGL 110C
SMGT 460/560 Sport and Social Justice (3 Credit Hours)
The class is a comprehensive survey of the historical interrelationship between sports and civil rights movements in the United States, emphasizing the African American experience. Through  popular and academic text and documentary films, students will examine the role that sport has played in raising consciousness about racial issues, and how participation and spectatorship influence attitudes about race.
Prerequisites: SMGT 214 or instructor permission
SMGT 468 Sport Management Internship (6-12 Credit Hours)
Culminating field-based experience required for all students with a major in sport management.  Students will work with faculty in securing a placement with a sport-related organization to apply the knowledge from the classroom to real-world experiences.  Internship site must be approved by the internship coordinator.  240-480 clock hours are required depending on the credit awarded.
Prerequisites: Completion of all coursework, a C- in SMGT 369 , a GPA of 2.0 in the major, and instructor permission
SMGT 495/595 Topics in Sport Management (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides an opportunity for in-depth study of selected topics in sport management.
SMGT 497 Independent Study in Sport Management (1-3 Credit Hours)
Individualized instruction to include research, specialized studies, or other scholarly writing.
Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor
Search catalog
