Theatre Minor
Linked BA/BS in Communication and MA in Lifespan and Digital Communication
The linked bachelor's/master's degree in communication/lifespan and digital communication is administered by the Communication and Theatre Arts Department.  The purpose of this option is to allow exceptional majors in communication to count up to 12 hours of 500-level graduate coursework towards both the BA or BS in communication and, if accepted, the MA in lifespan and digital communication.  Students in the linked program must earn a minimum of 150 credit hours (120 discrete credits for the undergraduate degree and 30 discrete credits for the graduate degree). For more information, please contact Dr. Gary Beck.
Linked BA/BS in Communication and MA in Humanities
Please refer to the Humanities section of this Catalog for information on the linked program leading to a BA or BS in communication and an MA in humanities.
BA or BS to MBA (Master of Business Administration) Linked Program
The linked BA/MBA or BS/MBA program is an early entry to the MBA program of study.  The early-entry program is designed for well qualified non-business undergraduate ODU students to start their MBA program prior to completing their undergraduate degree.  Well qualified non-business undergraduate students may take MBA-level courses as early as three semesters prior to graduation and count up to 12 graduate credits toward their undergraduate degree.  Students participating in the early-entry program must earn a minimum of 150 credit hours (120 discrete credit hours for the undergraduate degree and 30 discrete credit hours for the graduate degree).  Early-entry program students should carefully consider their undergraduate degree program requirements when planning their course of study.  Students in the early-entry program work in close consultation with the MBA Program Office and should refer to information in the Strome College of Business section in the graduate catalog to develop an individualized plan of study based on the required coursework.
BA or BS to MPA (Master of Public Administration) Linked Program
The linked BA/MPA or BS/MPA program provides qualified Old Dominion University undergraduate students with the opportunity to earn a master's degree in public administration while taking credits in the MPA program as an undergraduate student.  The program is designed for highly motivated students with the desire to immediately continue their education after the bachelor's degree.  The program is especially relevant to individuals seeking to work (or currently working) in the public or non-profit sectors, but is suitable for students from any undergraduate major.  Graduate courses may be taken during the fall and spring semester of the student's senior undergraduate year.  Up to 12 graduate credits can count toward both the undergraduate and graduate degree and can meet upper-level General Education requirements. After receiving the undergraduate degree, a student will continue with the MPA program, taking MPA courses until completing the required 39 credit hours. Students in the linked program must earn a minimum of 150 credit hours (120 discrete credit hours for the undergraduate degree and 30 discrete credit hours for the graduate degree).
Requirements for admission to the graduate program can be found in the School of Public Service section of the Graduate Catalog .  For additional information, please contact the School of Public Service in the Strome College of Business.
Courses
COMM 101R Public Speaking (3 Credit Hours)
Preparation, delivery, and analysis of types of speeches with emphasis on extemporaneous speaking.
COMM 103R Voice and Diction (3 Credit Hours)
An introduction to the analysis and practice of effective voice and articulation.   Applications across various communication contexts, such as public communication, media, and social communication.
COMM 112R Introduction to Interpersonal Communication (3 Credit Hours)
An introduction to concepts, processes, and effects of communication in personal and social relationships.  Emphasis on fundamental communication skills necessary for the formation and maintenance of relationships.
COMM 126R Honors: Public Speaking (3 Credit Hours)
Open only to students in the Honors College.  A study of the theory, strategies, and techniques of public speaking with emphasis on its application to effective conflict resolution.
COMM 195 Topics in Communication (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics designed for non-majors, or for elective credit within a major.  These courses will appear in the course schedule, and will be more fully described in a booklet distributed to all academic advisors.
COMM 196 Topics in Communication (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics designed for non-majors, or for elective credit within a major.  These courses will appear in the course schedule, and will be more fully described in a booklet distributed to all academic advisors.
COMM 200S Introduction to Human Communication (3 Credit Hours)
An introduction to the discipline and methods of human communication.  Survey of the major approaches to studying communication across the range of human communication contexts and functions.
COMM 225 Introduction to Production Technology (3 Credit Hours)
Fundamentals of construction, lighting, and production techniques in contemporary theatre and film.  Students will apply acquired skills to active productions for ODU Theatre and Film productions.
COMM 226S Honors: Introduction to Human Communication (3 Credit Hours)
Open only to students in the Honors College.  An introduction to the discipline and methods of human communication. Survey of the major approaches to studying communication across the range of human communication contexts and functions.
COMM 227A Honors: Film Appreciation (3 Credit Hours)
Open only to students in the Honors College. This class will focus on both contextual and close text analysis of masterworks as they have influenced film art and industry.  Students in this course are expected to develop basic research, communication, viewing and critical thinking skills as they apply their knowledge to the analysis of the film experience.
COMM 244 Introduction to Production Design (3 Credit Hours)
An introduction to principles, methods, and materials used in designing stage and film productions.
COMM 260 Understanding Media (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of mass communication--books, newspapers, magazines, radio, TV, film, sound recordings, and the Internet--as a global institution, industry, and social force.  Media literacy skills are emphasized, as are matters of technology, content, economics, history and impact.
COMM 269 Visual Storytelling (3 Credit Hours)
This online course will introduce students to the process of making movies. Students will learn basic conceptual and technical principles of the filmmaking process using personal equipment, such as an iPhone. The course is intended for non-cinema majors and does not satisfy the prerequisite requirement for higher-level production courses.
COMM 270A Film Appreciation (3 Credit Hours)
This class focuses on both contextual and close text analysis of masterworks as they have influenced film art and industry.  Students in this course are expected to develop basic research, communication, viewing and critical thinking skills as they apply their knowledge to the analysis of the film experience.
COMM 271 Introduction to Filmmaking (3 Credit Hours)
This course will introduce the beginning student to making movies. Students will learn the basics of working with cameras, lights, sound recording, video editing and post production.  This is a hands-on production course and the required prerequisite to most higher-level production courses. Students who complete COMM 271 cannot enroll in COMM 269 and have that course count toward their major.
COMM 272G Digital Literacy (3 Credit Hours)
Digital literacy refers to the unequal understanding people have about how digital technologies work, how that work is regulated, and how digital technologies are used - by us and by others - as effective and strategic communication and information tools. This course offers students a pathway to become digitally literate by teaching them how the work they perform on digital platforms impacts their interpersonal, communal, and social interactions as consumers, citizens, and content producers.
COMM 278G Advertising & Society (3 Credit Hours)
Advertising influences consumer beliefs and decision-making. This course introduces students to fundamental concepts in advertising and consumer culture while developing skills and knowledge in information and digital literacy. Topics covered include consumerism and resistance, representation in advertising, audience segmentation, and digital advertising. As they learn to critically evaluate and analyze advertising and its audiences, students will practice message evaluation and research skills. Students will also consider legal and ethical use of information in advertising.
COMM 280T Entertainment Technologies (3 Credit Hours)
This course is an introduction to the entertainment industry including working methods, processes, and equipment for live, recorded, and interactive entertainment. The exploration will include theatre, opera, dance, concert productions, theme parks, themed-retail, film production, immersive, interactive and virtual environments, and gaming technology. Attention is given to the positive and negative aspects of entertainment technologies and how they impact culture and society.
COMM 295 Topics in Communication (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics designed for nonmajors or for elective credit within a major. These courses will  appear in the course schedule  and will be more fully described by academic advisors.
COMM 300 International Sojourning (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to prepare ODU study-abroad students for successful international sojourns.  Topics to be covered include culture, culture shock, reverse culture shock and strategies for a successful study-abroad experience.
Prerequisites: junior standing or permission of instructor
COMM 301 Critical Methodologies (3 Credit Hours)
This survey course introduces students to critical methodologies utilized in the study of media texts.  Through case studies and hands-on exercises, students will learn how to study the production, consumption, and engagement with popular culture and how to decode its meanings.
Prerequisites: COMM 260
COMM 302 Communication Research Methods I (3 Credit Hours)
An introduction to communication research from a social science perspective.  Experiment, survey, content analysis and observational approaches are covered.  Students learn statistical data collection and data analysis techniques.
Prerequisites: STAT 130M , COMM 200S and six hours of 300-400 level communication courses or permission of instructor
COMM 303 Introduction to Strategic Communications (3 Credit Hours)
A study of interactions within and among communication workplaces and the public.  Attention is given to the media, promotions, community relations, and public information.
Prerequisites: COMM 260 or permission of the instructor
COMM 304 Advanced Public Speaking (3 Credit Hours)
An analysis and expression of professional speeches, delivered in public, business and special occasion contexts.  Attention is given to audience analysis, library research, development of arguments/evidence as content, creation and use of professional visual aids, expression of appropriate verbal and nonverbal speech cues, speaker credibility, and extemporaneous delivery skills.
Prerequisites: COMM 101R
COMM 305 Work-Life Communication (3 Credit Hours)
This course is an examination of both the theory and practice of communication in the professional setting. Content includes communication theory, work-life  communication, as well as the roles of interpersonal, organizational, and mediated communication as related to the workplace.
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of instructor
COMM 307 Understanding European Film (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides students with an historic overview of films from a variety of European countries.  Students gain the vocabulary necessary to analyze individual films and for the comparative analysis of films from different cultural and historical contexts.  The course will focus on issues such as national and individual identity, film as aesthetic form, gender and sexuality, and popular culture.
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of instructor
COMM 308W Strategic Communications Writing (3 Credit Hours)
This writing-intensive course will provide students with a concrete, real-world strategic communications experience in writing for various media to enhance the communication program of an organization. Students will research and write for print, broadcast, social, and digital media like video and electronic newsletters.
Prerequisites: grade of C or better in ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C ; COMM 303 recommended
COMM 309 Media Relations (3 Credit Hours)
Companies and organizations from just about every sector have a person or in some cases entire offices tasked with media relations. This course will take an in-depth look at the evolving landscape of multimedia communications, including seismic changes in the media in general, the rise of bloggers, influencers, and other shared media models, and the increasing role that content generation plays in traditional media relations. The course will include hands-on instruction and projects in content generation, media pitching and contact lists, media interviews, press conferences, as well as non-traditional earned media practices.
Prerequisites: COMM 260 or permission of the instructor
Pre- or corequisite: COMM 303 or permission of the instructor
COMM 310 Strategic Communications Campaigns (3 Credit Hours)
This course emphasizes a multi-disciplinary and multi-media approach to problem solving. Students will prepare a strategic communication campaign on behalf of a real client. It will include the production of research, strategy, and media material for use by the client. These materials, in turn, may be used in student portfolios as examples of professional capabilities.
Prerequisites: COMM 260 or permission of the instructor
Pre- or corequisite: COMM 303 or permission of the instructor
COMM 311 Strategic Communications Tactics (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides students skills needed to enter the workforce with a robust set of domain-specific skills, which includes practicing those skills in a realistic, hands-on setting, so they feel more ready to win and succeed in jobs in the competitive, modern marketplace. This course will provide relevant skills training to strategic communication students, while fortifying these students for professional success.
Prerequisites: junior standing
Pre- or corequisite: COMM 303
COMM 314 Nonverbal Communication (3 Credit Hours)
An introduction to the theories, processes and effects of communication in nonverbal codes.  Topics include kinesics, proxemics and paralanguage.  Critical analysis and contemporary research emphasized.
Prerequisites: Junior standing and COMM 200S , or permission of the instructor
COMM 315W Sex, Gender, and Communication (3 Credit Hours)
An overview of communication theory and research examining gendered verbal and nonverbal communication.  Topics include communication differences as a function of gender, theories that seek to explain these differences, and critical examination of social practices that create gender prescriptions. This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: Junior standing, COMM 200S , and a grade of C or better in ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C , or permission of the instructor
COMM 321 Production Management for Television and Stage (3 Credit Hours)
This course assists students in understanding the elements of production management both in television and on stage.  The course emphasizes organizational and communication skills; technical production knowledge; professional rehearsal and performance protocol according to the rules of AEA, AFTRA and SAG as well as basic production budgeting and scheduling.
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
COMM 323 Leadership and Events Management (3 Credit Hours)
The course covers the systematic process of organizational assessment from basic communication channels (verbal, printed, and electronic modes of communication), to interpersonal and group communication, to the management of events and staff.  This course examines the importance of leadership roles within organizations in planning any event as well as the communication dynamics between management and those being supervised.
Prerequisites: COMM 200S or permission of the instructor
COMM 325 Sound Design for Stage and Camera (3 Credit Hours)
This class introduces the concepts and techniques of sound design and sound effects for the stage and camera.  Students learn design of sound elements in both a live and recorded environment as well as learn the current equipment and software in digital sound reproduction.
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
COMM 326 Foundations of Group Communication (3 Credit Hours)
An introduction to the study of communication in task groups.  Course reviews foundational literature and emphasizes communication competencies relevant to optimizing group outcomes including group observation, participation, assessment, and leadership.
Prerequisites: Junior standing and COMM 200S or permission of the instructor
COMM 330 The Short Script (3 Credit Hours)
This course builds upon the principles taught in Screenwriting 1 (or equivalent) using the short script as a basis for the exploration.  Utilizing concepts of characterization, plot, dialogue and narrative style, students should complete the course with several production-ready short scripts.
Prerequisites: COMM 346 or THEA 346
COMM 333 Persuasion (3 Credit Hours)
An overview of the rhetorical and social scientific theories and research  about persuasion and applications in speeches and campaigns.
Prerequisites: COMM 200S or permission of the instructor
COMM 334 Narrative Adaptation (3 Credit Hours)
This screenwriting course explores the ways teleplays, stage plays, and screenplays can be crafted using a variety of primary source materials. Through multiple screenings, writing exercises, and deep reading, it examines what constitutes an adaptable piece of prose and how that material can be transformed. Primary weight is given to the movement from novel to film.
Prerequisites: COMM 346 or THEA 346
COMM 335W Rhetorical Criticism (3 Credit Hours)
With the goal of being able to critique a communication event, students study a variety of rhetorical approaches that may include neo-Aristotelian, generic, feminist, metaphoric, fantasy theme, and pentadic approaches to rhetorical criticism. This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: COMM 101R and a grade of C or better in ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C , or permission of the instructor
COMM 339 Entertainment Journalism (3 Credit Hours)
In this course, students learn how to transform casual expressions of opinion about celebrities and media into polished reviews and articles worthy of publication in newspapers, magazines, and online platforms. Students will examine models of good entertainment journalism, past and present, in print, on the Web and in podcasts. In particular, students will consider critical reviews, profiles of artists and entertainers, interviews, and trend stories.
Prerequisites: junior standing
Pre- or corequisite: COMM 260
COMM 340 Media and Popular Culture (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the basic ways in which the mass media intersect with the currents of contemporary culture.  Both historical and critical approaches to the study of mass communication and popular culture trace the full implications of their mutual determination and interdependence.
Prerequisites: COMM 260
COMM 341 Lighting Design for Stage and Film (3 Credit Hours)
This is a production course introducing students to the world of light and shadow, mood and composition by surveying lighting design, its technologies for stage and camera, and such principles as basic electrical theory and stage/studio/location design aesthetics.
Prerequisites: COMM 225 / THEA 225 and COMM 271 / THEA 271 or permission of instructor
COMM 342 Post-Production 1 (3 Credit Hours)
This course serves as an introduction to the art of video post-production. Students explore the theory and practice of various editing styles in order to gain a better understanding of how stories are constructed in the editing room. The course covers principles of post-production of narrative, documentary, and experimental films. Through demonstrations and hands-on experience, students learn editing techniques with an in-depth examination of tools and approaches in a non-linear editing system.
Prerequisites: COMM 271 or THEA 271 or DANC 271
COMM 344 Introduction to Media Industries (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides students with an overview of a range of media industries, exploring their histories and structures and their impact on contemporary media production. Students will track ongoing industry developments, applying course concepts and learning how media is made and how that process is restricted by a range of social, cultural, political, and economic forces.
Prerequisites: COMM 260
COMM 345 Media Audiences (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to introduce students to the major theories and perspectives that inform the ways media audiences are made meaningful to the creation, distribution, promotion, regulation, and evaluation of media and popular culture.
Prerequisites: COMM 260
COMM 346 Screenwriting I (3 Credit Hours)
This course is an introduction to narrative screenwriting focusing on the traditional feature film. Students will study screenwriting principles through text reading, film viewing, script analysis and substantial writing assignments. Focus is on story structure, character development, action, dialogue, and proper screenplay format.
Prerequisites: ENGL 110C with a grade of C or better and ENGL 211C with a grade of C or better
COMM 348 Acting for the Camera (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the process of building characters for the camera, and the ways in which the conventions of the stage are adapted for the film or video audience.
Prerequisites: THEA 152R
COMM 349 Costume Design for Stage and Camera (3 Credit Hours)
This course explores the design aesthetic, historical context, and contemporary impact on performance of the costume garment and its accessories.  Students explore the application of design principles in a practical experience.
Prerequisites: THEA 244
COMM 351 Interpersonal Communication in Organizations (3 Credit Hours)
Focuses on communication theory, research, and applications of a variety of forms of communication in organizational relationships.  Topics include superior-subordinate communication, interviewing, and presentations with an emphasis on a diversity of perspectives and types of organizations.
Prerequisites: Junior standing and COMM 200S or permission of the instructor
COMM 353 Animation (3 Credit Hours)
This is a project oriented, studio class that will focus on the art of animated storytelling from the traditional perspective of stop motion animation combined with digital post production. Students will engage in individual research, writing, storyboarding, editing, and sound creation to produce original short animations.  Crosslisted with THEA 353 .
Prerequisites: COMM 271 , DANC 271 , or THEA 271
COMM 354 Drafting and Rendering for Stage and Screen (3 Credit Hours)
This course is an intermediate level course designed to introduce the student to the fundementals of graphic skills necessary for the implementation of a scenic design on either the stage or in front of a lens. Techinques and skills will be demonstrated in drafting (hand and computer generated) and perspective sketching and rendering. Crosslisted with THEA 354.
Prerequisites: THEA 225 / COMM 225
COMM 355 Organizational Communication (3 Credit Hours)
Focuses on critical analysis of theory and research organizations as functional communication systems at the individual, dyadic, small group, and organizational levels.  Topics include information processing, problem solving, impression management, compliance gaining, and network analysis.
Prerequisites: COMM 200S or permission of instructor
COMM 356 3D Animation 1 (3 Credit Hours)
This is a project-oriented studio class that will focus on the art of animated storytelling through the use of computer-based 3D animation.
Prerequisites: COMM 271 or THEA 271 or DANC 271
COMM 357 3D Animation 2 (3 Credit Hours)
This is a project-oriented studio class that will focus on the art of animated storytelling from the perspective of computer-based 3D animation, building on the skills developed in 3D Animation 1. Students will engage in individual research, writing, storyboarding, editing, and sound creation to produce original short animations.
Prerequisites: COMM 356 or THEA 356
COMM 358 Color for Digital Cinema & TV (3 Credit Hours)
This course will introduce students to color workflow in the digital cinema environment. The focus will be on working with color beginning with the camera, through color correction to delivery, mixing software-specific techniques with a deepening understanding of the underlying theories of color theory and practice. Students will learn and apply industry standard best practices in the field of visual post-production. This is a hands-on workshop style post-production course.
Prerequisites: COMM 271 or DANC 271 or THEA 271
COMM 359 Costume Crafts (3 Credit Hours)
This course will develop design principles and craft techniques to create a wide variety of costume crafts. The course will focus on individual research, design elements and technical challenges. Projects will encourage students to explore textile modification, various applications for clothing design, costume crafts and art materials. Cross-listed with THEA 355 .
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
COMM 361 Editing Aesthetics (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide students with an in-depth knowledge of the theory of film editing and concepts in film editing such as pacing, rhythm, juxtaposition, and color. The course will encourage students to investigate and understand the effectiveness of various editing techniques deployed by film editors.
Prerequisites: COMM 270A / THEA 270A or COMM 271 / THEA 271
COMM 363 Reporting and News Writing I (3 Credit Hours)
This class focuses on media literacy and on the role of media in society. Students learn and practice elements of news writing, including writing leads, organizing stories, reporting techniques, and interviewing. Story assignments come from handouts, press releases, press conferences, speeches, and public meetings. Some assignments are completed under simulated deadline pressure in the computer lab.
Prerequisites: COMM 260
COMM 367 Cooperative Education (1-3 Credit Hours)
Available for pass/fail grading only.  Student participation for credit based on the academic relevance of the work experience, criteria, and evaluative procedures as formally determined by the department and Career Development Services prior to the semester in which the work experience takes place.  May be repeated for credit.
Prerequisites: Approval of the department and Career Development Services, in accordance with the policy for granting credit for Cooperative Education programs
COMM 368 Internship (3-6 Credit Hours)
A structured work experience with or without remuneration, in an appropriately related disciplinary field. An ePortfolio, 150 hours of site work, plus satisfactory evaluations by supervisor and cooperating faculty member are required. Available for pass/fail grading only. Available to Communication, Theatre, and Dance majors and minors only. Cross-listed with DANC 368 and THEA 368 .
Prerequisites: Approval of departmental internship director prior to registration
COMM 369 Research Practicum (3 Credit Hours)
A structured research experience, under the supervision of communication faculty member.  A paper evaluating/analyzing the research, a log of research progress, and satisfactory evaluation by the supervising faculty are required.
Prerequisites: Completion of core courses and 6 hours of upper-level major courses; approval of supervising faculty and department chair prior to registration
COMM 372T Introduction to New Media Technologies (3 Credit Hours)
Introduction to new media practices and theories.  Focuses upon the powers of composition, networked communities, information management, social networking and identification in digital environments.  Students will examine practical applications such as blogging, online mapping and tagging, online collaborative work such as wikis and self composition in online social networks.
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
COMM 375 Television Production (3 Credit Hours)
This course explores the basic process of producing television from script to presentation.
Prerequisites: COMM 271 or THEA 271 or permission of the instructor
COMM 380 Documentary Production I (3 Credit Hours)
This course offers the student an opportunity to explore the world of documentary filmmaking. Students will perform research to develop evidence in support of a thesis, then utilize the camera to capture a narrative story based on the thesis. Through this process, the student is better able to understand documentary filmmaking. Students will develop and deliver short documentary films by the end of the semester.
Prerequisites: THEA 271 or COMM 271 or DANC 271 with grade of C or higher
COMM 382 Reporting News for Television and Digital Media (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on writing for television news and producing online news reports.  Students will strengthen their journalistic skills and learn the importance of writing clearly for a viewing audience while working under newsroom deadlines.  By the end of the course, students should feel confident in producing accurate, detailed reports for television news and online news sites.
Prerequisites: ENGL 110C and ENGL 211C
COMM 383 Directing the Actor (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed as a practical guide for directors to elicit strong performances from the actors who tell their stories. The class will establish vocabulary and practice techniques that are equally applicable to work in film or theatre. Ideally, the course will encourage students to think beyond genre as they create work that is both dramatically and humanly compelling.
Prerequisites: COMM 271 or THEA 271 or DANC 271 or THEA 152R
COMM 385 Cinematography (3 Credit Hours)
Introduces students to cinematography. The course explores camera technique, blocking actors, lighting, and cinematography fundamentals. The concepts of the course are applied to fiction and nonfiction cinema. This is a production class.
Prerequisites: THEA 271 or COMM 271 or DANC 271 with grade of C or higher
COMM 386 Post-Production 2 (3 Credit Hours)
This course builds on the fundamentals learned in Post-Production I, exploring advanced post-production techniques in picture editing, color correction and grading, sound editing and mixing, VFX editing, title and graphics editing, chroma key and compositing. The focus will be on mixing software-specific techniques with deepening understanding of the underlying theories of editing, color theory and principles of sound post-production. The students will learn and apply industry standard best practices in the field of audiovisual post-production. This is a hands-on workshop style post-production course.
Prerequisites: COMM 342 or THEA 342
COMM 387 TV News Production (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide students with an introduction to the reporting, writing, and production aspects of a television news program.  Students will learn how to create 15- and 30-minute news broadcasts by developing story ideas and news gathering. Students will also learn the intricacies of shooting and editing video along with the production process involved in recording a live news broadcast.  Each student will spend time both in front of and behind the television studio cameras.  The goal of this course is to produce weekly news programs worthy of broadcast on local television. Students will assume the roles of reporter, writer, producer, floor director, photojournalist, videographer, technician, and more.
Pre- or corequisite: COMM 382 or ENGL 382
COMM 388 Motion Picture Aesthetics (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to develop within students a heightened and multifaceted awareness and appreciation for aesthetics of a particular type - motion picture aesthetics. Aesthetic considerations impact us intellectually, emotionally, psychologically, and viscerally. Professionals most definitely employ a language to filmmaking. One must learn the language of motion picture production and aesthetic design in order to convey concepts to their audiences.
Prerequisites: COMM 270A or THEA 270A
COMM 389 Sound Recording and Mixing for Film (3 Credit Hours)
This course will explore the best concepts in recording, editing and mixing audio for film and post-production. Students will be using Pro Tools hands-on to sync and mix audio to picture. Topics will include location audio, sound design, ADR, mixing, and more.
Prerequisites: COMM 271 or THEA 271 or DANC 271
COMM 395 Topics in Communication (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics designed for non-majors, or for elective credit within a major.  These courses will appear in the course schedule, and will be more fully described in information distributed to all academic advisors.
Prerequisites: Junior standing and permission of the instructor
COMM 396 Topics in Communication (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics designed for nonmajors, or for elective credit within a major.  These courses will appear in the course schedule, and will be more fully described in information distributed to all academic advisors.
Prerequisites: Junior standing and permission of the instructor
COMM 400W/500 Intercultural Communication (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to introduce students to the study of communication in cultural contexts, the purpose of which is to prepare one to live and work within an increasingly multicultural world.  This is accomplished by defining and critically analyzing concepts of culture.  Throughout the semester, the course will investigate theories of culture and communication that address the development of cultural identity, intercultural communication competence, the role of verbal and nonverbal communication across cultures, the cultural composition of the U.S., and ethical communication and challenge in a globalized era.  This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: COMM 200S and a grade of C or better in ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C , or permission of instructor
COMM 401/501 Communication Theory (3 Credit Hours)
An overview of general and contextual theories of communication.  Focus is on the nature of communication theory, the role of theory in communication inquiry, and the relationships among theory, research, and practice.
Prerequisites: COMM 200S or permission of the instructor
COMM 403/503 Public Relations and Crisis Communications (3 Credit Hours)
This course introduces students to the basic elements of public relations as it pertains to assisting organizations avoid, mitigate and recover from crisis situations.  Students will have the opportunity to both observe and participate in crisis communications situations.
Prerequisites: COMM 303 or permission of instructor
COMM 404/504 Strategic Communications and Emergency Management (3 Credit Hours)
This course introduces students to the multi-layered challenges associated with communication in the event of accidents, crises and natural disasters. In addition to incorporating basic elements of public relations as it pertains to assisting organizations avoid, mitigate and recover from external crisis situations, students will have the opportunity to both observe and participate in crafting multi-agency responses to these unplanned events.
Prerequisites: COMM 303 or permission of the instructor
COMM 405/505 Communication and Culture in the Middle East (3 Credit Hours)
The course examines the tensions between modernity and tradition in the context of Middle East culture.  Cultural variables for study include myth and religion, family structures and the use of science and technology.
Prerequisites: Six hours of lower-level social science course work
COMM 408 Health Communication (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides an overview of contemporary scholarship on phenomena within the scope of interpersonal health communication. Students will become familiar with fundamental communication processes that are involved in the interprofessional management of physical and mental health. Additionally, students will develop an awareness of how communication among friends, family members, professionals, and others influences people's well-being, and how, in turn, health and illness shape communication and relationship dynamics.
Prerequisites: COMM 200S
COMM 412W/512 Interpersonal Communication Theory and Research (3 Credit Hours)
A survey of classic and contemporary theories and research of communication in personal and social relationships across the lifespan.  Emphasizes communication as a means to facilitate conditions for development of positive relational outcomes. This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: COMM 200S and ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C with a grade of C or better
COMM 421/521 Communication and Conflict Management (3 Credit Hours)
Focus on theory and research of communication processes in conflict episodes across social and personal relational contexts.  Applications of communication approaches to conflict management emphasized.
Prerequisites: Junior standing and COMM 200S or permission of the instructor
COMM 422/522 Listening to Self, Others, Nature and the Divine (3 Credit Hours)
The listening course introduces students to: 1) Practices for exploring and developing listening competencies, 2) Theoretical perspectives and models of listening, and 3) Research on listening. Practice, theory, and research are all integrated across the contexts of self, others, nature, and the divine.
Prerequisites: Junior Standing
COMM 423/523 Nonviolent Communication and Peace (3 Credit Hours)
Perspectives on nonviolent communication and peace are covered from the micro level (e.g., individual beliefs and worldviews) to interpersonal relationships (e.g., conflict management), groups (e.g., tribes, gangs), organizational systems (e.g., businesses, governments), and macro or global level (e.g., political relationships between nations).
Prerequisites: Junior standing
COMM 424/524 Communicating Love (3 Credit Hours)
This course investigates the history, types, characteristics, functions, and applications of love in everyday life, emphasizing the communication of altruistic/compassionate/agape love in four interrelated contexts: self, spirit, others, and creation. Theory, research, and applications of love will be explored within the spiritual, scientific, and dialogic (the conversation between science and spirit) perspectives.
Prerequisites: Junior standing
COMM 425/525 Family Communication Theory and Research (3 Credit Hours)
A survey of classic and contemporary theories and research of communication in family units, family relationships, and family interfacings with society.    The course emphasizes communication in the social construction of evolving 'family' realities as well as communication as means to facilitate conditions for development of positive domestic outcomes.
Prerequisites: Junior standing and COMM 200S or permission of the instructor
COMM 427/527 Children's Communication Theory and Research (3 Credit Hours)
A survey of  theories and research of communication during childhood.  Emphasis is on children as developing communicators, their relationships, and their interactions with media.  Factors affecting  optimal development of children's communication and development of applications to enhance children's communication development are emphasized.
Prerequisites: COMM 200S or permission of instructor
COMM 430 TV Screenwriting (3 Credit Hours)
This course concentrates on the development and delivery of industry standard one-hour long TV scripts and the associated script 'bible.' Students will study sample scripts from broadcast TV programs and develop their own spec scripts. Cross-listed with THEA 430 .
Prerequisites: COMM 346 or THEA 346
COMM 433 Capstone (3 Credit Hours)
This capstone course requires students to exhibit knowledge from  disciplinary curricula. Students will review an informed snapshot of current topics, methods and research within the communication discipline. Students will demonstrate communication competency through the development of a relevant final project (with required research).
Prerequisites: Senior in good academic standing, COMM 200S , COMM 260 , COMM 301 or COMM 302 , and completion of the writing intensive course in the major
COMM 439 WHRO Production (3 Credit Hours)
This is an experiential style course in the art and business of documentary production in the hands-on, professional environment of WHRO, which operates Hampton Roads’ PBS affiliate TV station as well as two public radio stations. Students will be guided through the production of content for WHRO by an ODU faculty member and the WHRO staff. Cross-listed with THEA 439 .
Prerequisites: COMM 271 or THEA 271 or DANC 271
COMM 440 Documentary Filmmaking Study Abroad (3 Credit Hours)
This is an in-the-field study abroad course where students will, in small groups, produce a short documentary film about a local NGO (Non-Governmental Organization) creating positive change in the local community.
Prerequisites: COMM 271 or THEA 271 or DANC 271 with a grade of C or higher
COMM 441 The Music Industry and Communication (3 Credit Hours)
This course will seek to better understand the music industry.  To do this, the organization and operation of the modern music industry will be examined.  Issues of publishing, copyright and intellectual property and technology will also be examined.
Prerequisites: COMM 260 or permission of instructor
COMM 442 Media Spaces (3 Credit Hours)
This course explores the geographic dimensions of media, considering how issues of space and place intersect with the production and consumption of different forms of media. Employing semester-long cases that explore a range of mediated spaces from theme parks to television productions, students in the course will consider how spatiality shapes the cultural, economic, and creative dynamics of that production/experience.
Prerequisites: COMM 260 and Junior standing
COMM 443/543 Hispanic Film (3 Credit Hours)
A topical study of the major works of Spanish and Latin American film from Buneul to the present.  The course will explore many issues, including those related to gender, race, symbolism, and class struggle.
Prerequisites: COMM 270A or THEA 270A or permission of the instructor
COMM 444/544 German Cinema I (3 Credit Hours)
The first half of the 20th century was the most creative and destructive period in German and European history. Its rich cultural achievements included Viennese psychoanalytical theory of the turn of the century, Art Nouveau, German Expressionism, and the avant garde aesthetics of the Weimar Republic. Conversely, World War I and II exposed the cultural agony and human depravity of modern civilization. This course will trace these various aspects and developments in a variety of exemplary genres. Readings and discussions in German. (Cross-listed with WCS 445 / WCS 545 and GER 445 / GER 545 )
Prerequisites: COMM 270A or permission of the instructor
COMM 445/545 Communication Analysis and Criticism (3 Credit Hours)
A survey of the key methods used in critiquing various forms of human and mediated communication for the purpose of becoming more discerning consumers of public and mass mediated messages.  Analysis will include films, television, and radio programs, advertisements, newspapers, public discourses, speeches, and conversations.
Prerequisites: COMM 200S or permission of the instructor
COMM 446 Directing for the Camera (3 Credit Hours)
This course seeks to provide students with fundamental principles and practical techniques of directing the narrative fiction film: script development and analysis, production planning, shot composition and framing, and working with actors and crew.
Prerequisites: COMM 383 or THEA 383 with a grade of C or higher
COMM 447W/547 Electronic Media Law and Policy (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on legal and policy issues related to modern media systems and technologies, with an emphasis on legal considerations of electronic media.  Topics include First Amendment issues concerning news, programming, and advertising; station licensing; and challenges to traditional legal thought brought about by new technologies.  This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: COMM 260 and a grade of C or better in ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C , or permission of the instructor
COMM 448/548 Global Media Industries (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of the rise of broadcast technology and world flow of information and entertainment.  Theory and policy issues of systems of broadcast ownership, access, regulation, programming, transborder, broadcasting and cultural imperialism and dominance of Western programming will be addressed.
Prerequisites: COMM 260 or permission of the instructor
COMM 453 Voice Over (3 Credit Hours)
This course is for students who are interested in the field of voice over for commercials, narration, industrials, animation, Internet, and gaming. Students will practice voicing copy using acting techniques, vocal techniques, building characters, and analyzing copy. Students will learn to select, edit and prepare copy for a future demo and learn to perform cold voice over auditions. This is a performance-oriented course that is a workout session each day. Crosslisted with THEA 453 .
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of instructor
COMM 454 Strategic Communications Case Studies (3 Credit Hours)
Strategic communications is best learned by doing, including researching what has worked and what hasn't worked in strategies and tactics conducted by other professionals. This course will introduce students to a series of case studies organized thematically, grounding the knowledge gained in COMM 303 and allowing students to apply that knowledge to contemporary industries and cases of their own choosing.
Prerequisites: COMM 303 or permission of the instructor
COMM 455/555 Critical Analysis of Journalism (3 Credit Hours)
A critical examination of the news industry as practiced in the printed press, network and cable television, magazines, the Internet, and alternative press.  Class examines the political economy of journalism, the sociology of journalistic practice, international news flows, ideological/political control of news, and mythological narrative forms within news.
Prerequisites: COMM 260 or permission of instructor
COMM 456/556 Organizations and Social Influence (3 Credit Hours)
Focuses on theories, research and applications of the social influence function of communication in a variety of organizational contexts. Examines traditional and nontraditional social influence theories and research as applied to organizational change.
Prerequisites: COMM 333 or COMM 355 or permission of the instructor
COMM 457/557 Market Research (3 Credit Hours)
The foundation of any successful strategic communications, from marketing to public relations to advertising, is research. This course introduces students to secondary and primary research methods in an applied way, having students actually design and conduct full research studies for a client in the community. Students will discuss and conduct various forms of market research (situation, stakeholder, and competitor), explaining how it is integral to strategic thinking and responsible growth in order to directly prepare them for work in the field.
Prerequisites: COMM 303 or permission of the instructor
COMM 460/560 Social Marketing (3 Credit Hours)
Social marketing, the process through which communications professionals attempt to introduce, reinforce, or augment social change through theories and practices of marketing, is a growing field with implications ranging from social entrepreneurship to international relations to community resiliency. This course will introduce the theories of social marketing, applying them through collaborations with a local organization or cause. Students will focus on a practical approach to constructing a brand through communication strategy and media tactics, and how those relate to constructing and maintaining the identity of a larger organization while also promoting social benefit.
Prerequisites: COMM 303
COMM 462/562 Sport and Strategic Communication (3 Credit Hours)
A survey of sport media and strategic communications. This course will expose students to the sport media industry, emphasizing the communications process in various mediums used to convey messages.  The internal and external publics involved in sport public relations will be examined, along with the steps involved in the process, particularly the strategic communication planning process.
Prerequisites: COMM 303
COMM 463W Reporting and News Writing II (3 Credit Hours)
Designed to familiarize students with the fundamentals of beat reporting and its practice in the multimedia environment of 'converged' newsrooms. The course emphatically focuses on writing but also provides instruction on how the tools and techniques of multimedia platforms are used to enhance storytelling. Emphasis is also placed on accessing information through web-based resources and government documents. This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: ENGL 211C or ENGL 231C and COMM 363
COMM 464 Sports Journalism (3 Credit Hours)
This is primarily a sportswriting course in which students are introduced to various types and styles of sports stories that are representative of sports journalism as practiced in newspapers and magazines. The course also explores the role of sports in American society.
Prerequisites: COMM 260
COMM 466 Feature Story Writing (3 Credit Hours)
Course includes discussion and practice of writing a variety of newspaper and magazine feature stories. Students will write and critique stories on people, places, businesses, trends, and issues. Assistance is given in the marketing of manuscripts.
Prerequisites: COMM 363
COMM 469 Communication Education Practicum (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of communication education theory and methodology via structured experiences and readings.  Students taking this course serve as teaching assistants for COMM 200S , which serves as a lab for practicing skills and techniques.
Prerequisites: Completion of core courses and 6 hours of upper-level major courses, and approval of supervising faculty and department chair
COMM 471W/571 International Film History (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of world cinema as a technology, a business, an institution, and an art form from its inception to the present.  Emphasis is on the narrative fiction film, its technological and aesthetic development, economic organization, and socio-cultural context.  Representative classic and contemporary works will be screened and analyzed.  This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: COMM 270A or THEA 270A , a grade of C or better in ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C , and junior standing or permission of the instructor
COMM 472/572 New Media Topics: Theories and Practices (3 Credit Hours)
This upper-division seminar investigates one or two particular emergent new media practices and theories.  The topics will be chosen at the discretion of the instructor but may include issues such as 'mobile media,' 'micro media and audiences,' and 'social media.'
Prerequisites: COMM 372T or permission of the instructor
COMM 473/573 Television and Society (3 Credit Hours)
The role of television in the cultural, psychological, and economic life of America.  The structure and design of television programs; and the history and function of television in reinforcing or altering public perceptions of ideas, events, and people.  Major critical approaches are employed in examining television's social impact and global reach.
Prerequisites: Junior standing and COMM 260
COMM 474 Reality Television (3 Credit Hours)
In the past two decades, reality television has become television's most replicated genre, documenting real people in 'real' situations across broadcast, cable, and streaming outlets. This class investigates the historical, cultural, and industrial logics that govern the rise of reality TV, exploring how the genre intersects with issues of race, gender, sexuality, and class, and asking students to apply their understanding of the genre to detailed analysis of its ongoing efforts to capture the complexities of everyday life.
Prerequisites: COMM 260
COMM 478/578 Media Marketing and Promotion (3 Credit Hours)
This course introduces students to the ways in which different media forms are used for advertising and marketing purposes.  Emphasis is on electronic media, though other approaches, such as direct marketing techniques and the increasing use of new media technologies for marketing, are also examined.
Prerequisites: Junior standing and COMM 260 or permission of the instructor
COMM 479W/579 American Film History (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of American motion pictures as an art form, a business and an institution from inception to the present.  Primary attention is accorded to the narrative fiction film, its aesthetic and technological development, economic organization and social impact.  This course highlights the many connections between film history and American culture. This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: COMM 270A or THEA 270A , a grade of C or better in ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C , and junior standing or permission of the instructor
COMM 480/580 Documentary Production II (3 Credit Hours)
Students will continue the work performed in COMM 380 with more advanced proposals, research, and production work.
Prerequisites: COMM 380 or THEA 380
COMM 482 Screenwriting II (3 Credit Hours)
Students will explore storytelling for cinema through screenplay analysis, scene study, character development, narrative structure, and story development.  This upper-level, hands-on course applies a range of screenwriting principles to writing exercises, critique, and construction of the first half of a feature-length screenplay.
Prerequisites: COMM 346 or THEA 346 with a grade of C or better
COMM 483 Advanced Cinema Projects (3 Credit Hours)
This is an intensive capstone course in film production.  Students experience pre-production, production, and post-production phases while creating a product to be entered in regional and national competitions.
Prerequisites: COMM 383 or THEA 383
COMM 484/584 Strategic Media Design and Production (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to extend students' knowledge of the media elements of strategic communications, from graphics to images to video. Students will discuss how to ground creative production in strategy for a client, how to focus on content and storytelling for a specific stakeholder, and how to create an extended, coherent plan using both creative and organizational goals. This is not intended to make students 'creative' but instead to show students how to design, direct, and manage the work that a media production team might do.
Prerequisites: COMM 303 or permission of the instructor
COMM 485/585 Film and Television Genres (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to examine the conventions and meanings of various film and television genres within their broader aesthetic, socio-historical, cultural, and political contexts.  Each time the class is offered it will focus in depth on a different genre, such as the gangster, the Western, the musical, the comedy, science fiction, among others. Class may be repeated for credit as long as the genres are different.
Prerequisites: COMM 270A or THEA 270A or COMM 260
COMM 486/586 Advanced Filmmaking (3 Credit Hours)
This course offers students an opportunity to collaborate on a faculty led project beyond the scope of typical classroom projects.  Students will execute an assigned duty for the duration of the semester.
Prerequisites: permission of the instructor
COMM 487 Advanced TV News Production (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide students with advanced instruction in reporting, writing, and production for a television news program. Students will take on important roles in 15- and 30-minute news broadcasts and refine their skills in shooting and editing video. The goal of this course is to produce weekly news programs worthy of broadcast on local television. Students will receive significant experience in front of the camera as news, sports, and entertainment anchors/reporters as well as leadership positions in the television studio during the live broadcasts.
Prerequisites: COMM 387 , THEA 387 or ENGL 387
COMM 488 Introduction to Critical Race and Media Studies (3 Credit Hours)
In this course, students examine how media culture - both historic and contemporary - contribute to the intersectional production of race in the United States. A guiding question will be:  How do media and popular culture - as texts, practices, industries, and sites of identity formation and pleasure - construct race?  Although students will theorize the politics of representation, they will also work to situate texts within a larger historic, political, and discursive context in order to assess the type of cultural work they perform.
Prerequisites: COMM 260
COMM 489/589 Health and Interpersonal Communication (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to give an overview of contemporary scholarship on phenomena within the scope of interpersonal health communication.
Prerequisites: Instructor permission required
COMM 490/590 Advanced Strategic Communications (3 Credit Hours)
In this course, students gain hands-on experience working with clients in an agency setting in which they not only work directly with clients, but are also given credit for learning new tools and software to build their portfolios. The first semester a student takes the course, they take a "junior" role where they are learning about and the process of working with their client. Repeat students take more senior roles, where they interface more extensively with the client and become leaders of teams of students and of bigger projects with more responsibility. The tools/software they learn will change each semester, as will their client, making the course a different experience each time and allowing them to grow into leadership positions that will transition well into project manager or creative director roles outside the university.
Prerequisites: COMM 303 or permission of the instructor
COMM 491/591 Communication and Activism (3 Credit Hours)
This course will delve into activism and social change from a local and global perspective in order to enhance students' perspectives of social change as it manifests via popular media and community action.
Prerequisites: Instructor permission required
COMM 492 Cinematography 2 (3 Credit Hours)
This course builds on the fundamentals learned in Cinematography 1, exploring advanced camera and lighting techniques primarily used in narrative cinema. Advanced cameras, grip, electric, and lighting equipment will be covered, exposing students to gear and practices beyond the scope of a standard student production. This is a production class.
Prerequisites: COMM 385 or THEA 385
COMM 493 Feature Film Production (6 Credit Hours)
This intensive course will bring students onto the set of a Feature Film Production, working crew positions as the film is shot. Cross-listed with THEA 493 .
Prerequisites: COMM 271 / THEA 271 / DANC 271 and two of the following: COMM 380 / THEA 380 , COMM 383 / THEA 383 , COMM 385 / THEA 385 , COMM 386 / THEA 386 , COMM 389 / THEA 389 , COMM 483 / THEA 483 , COMM 486 / THEA 486 , COMM 492 / THEA 492 with a grade of C or better
COMM 494 Entrepreneurship and Public Relations (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to help students enhance their personal and professional development through innovation guided by faculty members and professionals, while at the same time, meeting a critical need for Old Dominion University. Through a partnership with ODU's Office of Strategic Communication and Marketing, a select group of upper-level public relations, marketing or related discipline students will work, individually and in teams, as a "bureau" for the University's central marketing and communications office.
Prerequisites: COMM 303 or equivalent
COMM 495/595 Topics in Communication (1-3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics designed to permit small groups of qualified students to work on subjects of mutual interest which, due to their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly. These courses will appear in the course schedule, and will be more fully described in information distributed to all academic advisors.
Prerequisites: Appropriate survey course or permission of the instructor
COMM 496/596 Topics in Communication (1-3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics designed to permit small groups of qualified students to work on subjects of mutual interest which, due to their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly. These courses will appear in the course schedule, and will be more fully described in information distributed to all academic advisors.
Prerequisites: Appropriate survey course or permission of the instructor
COMM 497/597 Tutorial Work in Special Topics in Communication (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor. Conferences and papers as appropriate.
Prerequisites: Senior standing and approval of the department chair
COMM 498/598 Tutorial Work in Special Topics in Communication (3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor. Conferences and papers as appropriate.
Prerequisites: Senior standing and approval of the department chair
Dance (DANC)
DANC 152R Acting One (3 Credit Hours)
An introduction to the physical and vocal principles of performance coupled with an opportunity to increase awareness of the constructed nature of social interactions. Students will explore confident self-expression through the physical, vocal, emotional and technical aspects of acting, as an art form and a daily experience, in a format that encourages freedom of imagination and personal growth. Emphasis is on the fundamental communication skills of presence, body language, imagination, and social communication.
DANC 185A Dance and Its Audience (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to acquaint students with the components of theatrical dance performance, its historical and ethnic origins, its role as a creative expression of peoples and societies and its relationship to other art forms.  Through films, videos, live performances, guest speakers, readings and discussions, students consider philosophical approaches to language, communication, aesthetics and style of choreography.
DANC 195 Topics in Dance (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics designed for nonmajors, or for elective credit within a major.
DANC 196 Topics in Dance (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics designed for nonmajors, or for elective credit within a major.  These courses will appear in the course schedule, and will be more fully described in a booklet distributed to academic advisors.
DANC 201 Ballet Technique 1 (2 Credit Hours)
Introduction to ballet technique.
DANC 211 Modern Dance Technique 1 (2 Credit Hours)
Introduction to modern dance technique.
DANC 231 Ballroom Dance 1 (1 Credit Hour)
This class introduces students to basic American and Latin ballroom dance.  Basic steps of the foxtrot, waltz, swing, tango, cha cha and rumba will be covered.  Focus on rhythm, technique, leading and following is also included.  This class is open to single students and couples.
DANC 232 Ballroom Dance 2 (1 Credit Hour)
This class is a continuation of basic American and Latin ballroom dance.  Basic steps of the foxtrot, waltz, swing, tango, cha cha and rumba will be covered.  Focus is on rhythm, technique, leading and following.  The class is open to single students and couples.
DANC 235 Yoga (2 Credit Hours)
An introduction to yoga postures, breathing exercises, and relaxation techniques that promote health, alleviate stress, improve skeletal alignment, and increase muscular strength and flexibility.  Students are also introduced to the history and philosophy of yoga.
DANC 241 Pilates Mat Class I (1 Credit Hour)
This course will introduce students to the Pilates method. Students will learn beginning-level Pilates exercises on the mat.
DANC 242 Pilates Mat Class 2 (1 Credit Hour)
A continuation of the study of the Pilates method. Students will learn intermediate-level Pilates exercises on the mat.
Prerequisites: DANC 241 or permission of the instructor
DANC 251 Tap Dance I (1 Credit Hour)
Introduction to tap dance styles including classic, hoof and rhythm. Fundamental movements such as time steps, grab-offs, riffs, etc. are incorporated using counterpoint rhythms and challenges.  Students gain an understanding of tap dance as an American art form.
DANC 271 Introduction to Filmmaking (3 Credit Hours)
This course will introduce the beginning student to making movies. Students will learn the basics of working with cameras, lights, sound recording, video editing and post production. This is a hands-on production course.
DANC 295 Topics in Dance (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics designed for nonmajors, or for elective credit within a major.  These courses appear in the course schedule, and are fully described in a booklet distributed to academic advisors.
DANC 296 Topics in Dance (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics designed for nonmajors, or for elective credit within a major.  These courses appear in the course schedule, and are fully described in a booklet distributed to academic advisors.
DANC 301 Ballet in Context (1 Credit Hour)
An examination of the history, theory, and practice of Ballet.
Prerequisites: Junior standing
Pre- or corequisite: DANC 201
DANC 302 Ballet Technique 2 (2 Credit Hours)
Continuation of ballet technique.
Prerequisites: DANC 201 or permission of the instructor
DANC 303 Ballet Technique 3 (1-4 Credit Hours)
Continuation of ballet technique at an intermediate level.
Prerequisites: DANC 302 or permission of the instructor
DANC 311 Modern Dance in Context (1 Credit Hour)
An examination of the history, theory, and practice of Modern Dance.
Prerequisites: Junior standing
Pre- or corequisite: DANC 211
DANC 312 Modern Dance Technique 2 (2 Credit Hours)
Continuation of modern dance technique.
Prerequisites: DANC 211 or permission of the instructor
DANC 313 Modern Dance Technique 3 (1-4 Credit Hours)
Continuation of modern dance technique at an intermediate level.
Prerequisites: DANC 312 or permission of the instructor
DANC 320 Jazz in Context (1 Credit Hour)
An examination of the history, theory, and practice of Jazz.
Prerequisites: Junior standing
Pre- or corequisite: DANC 201 or DANC 211
DANC 321 Jazz Dance 1 (1 Credit Hour)
Introduction to jazz dance technique.
Prerequisites: DANC 201 or DANC 211 or DANC 260 or permission of instructor
DANC 322 Jazz Dance 2 (1 Credit Hour)
Continuation of jazz dance technique.
Prerequisites: DANC 321 or permission of the instructor
DANC 330 Extreme Moves (Conditioning for Dancers) (2 Credit Hours)
This course explores the extended physical technique known as Extreme Moves. The Extreme Moves training method focuses on the body’s alignment with regard to how forces are present, how they act upon it, and how to build strength to resist or collaborate with these forces. Students will work with props such as large physio balls, elastic bands, mats and the wall in order to improve their core strength, balance, upper and lower body strength and alignments. Through physical practice, readings and videos, students will learn the conceptual framework for Extreme Moves.
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
DANC 341 Pilates Equipment Lab 1 (1-2 Credit Hours)
This course will focus on learning beginning and some intermediate exercises on the Pilates equipment, which includes the Reformer, Cadillac, Lo Chair and Magic Circle.
Prerequisites: DANC 241 or instructor permission
DANC 342 Pilates Equipment Lab 2 (1-2 Credit Hours)
This course will focus on learning intermediate and some advanced exercises on the Pilates equipment, which includes the Reformer, Cadillac, Low Chair and Magic Circle.
Prerequisites: DANC 341 or instructor permission
DANC 360 Rhythmic Analysis (1 Credit Hour)
A study of basic music theory specifically designed for the dancer.  Emphasis is on score reading, accompaniment for dance, note values and rhythms as they directly relate to choreography in a classroom as well as in the rehearsal studio.  Students perform movement studies based on rhythmic structures.
Prerequisites: DANC 201 or DANC 211 or permission of the instructor
DANC 361 Hip Hop Dance & Culture 1 (2 Credit Hours)
This course will explore hip hop dance and culture from several points of entry: movement, historical, political, aesthetic, sonic, and geographical.  The historical focus of the course locates hip-hop dance as a personal, interactive, and cultural expression. Students will navigate through the evolution of hip hop dance and culture from its birthplace in the Bronx, NY through its development into a global phenomenon.  The course will discuss the elements of hip hop culture: DJ, B-Boy/Girl, Graffiti Art, MC, and Beat Box, and how they intersect.  Students will explore how hip-hop influences and is influenced by geopolitics, race, gender, and other social structures.
Prerequisites: DANC 261
DANC 362 Hip Hop Dance & Culture 2 (2 Credit Hours)
This course will continue to explore hip hop dance and culture from several points of entry: movement, historical, political, aesthetic, sonic, and geographical.  The historical focus of the course locates hip hop dance as a personal, interactive, and cultural expression. Students will navigate deeper through the evolution of hip hop dance and culture from its birthplace in the Bronx, NY through its development into a global phenomenon.  The course will continue its discussion on the elements of hip hop culture: DJ, B-Boy/Girl, Graffiti Art, MC, and Beat Box, and how they intersect.  Students will continue to explore how hip-hop influences and is influenced by geopolitics, race, gender, and other social structures.
Prerequisites: DANC 361
DANC 367 Cooperative Education (1-3 Credit Hours)
Student participation for credit based on the academic relevance of the work experience, criteria and evaluative procedures as formally determined by the department and Career Development Services prior to the semester in which the work experience takes place. Available for pass/fail grading only.
Prerequisites: Approval of the department and Career Development Services
DANC 368 Internship (1-3 Credit Hours)
A structured work experience with or without remuneration, in an appropriately related disciplinary field. An ePortfolio, 150 hours of site work, plus satisfactory evaluations by supervisor and cooperating faculty member are required. Available for pass/fail grading only. Available to Communication, Theatre, and Dance majors and minors only. Cross-listed with COMM 368 and THEA 368 .
Prerequisites: Approval of departmental internship director prior to registration
DANC 369 Practicum (1-3 Credit Hours)
Field experience in dance.
Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor
DANC 370 Dance Composition 1 (2 Credit Hours)
Designed for dance majors or minors, this course is a study of the elements and craft of choreography through practical and written experience.  Time, space and dynamics are explored through assigned movement studies.  Projects are designed for the creative development of personal movement repertoire and compositional skills for the dancer, choreographer and dance educator.
Prerequisites: DANC 211 and DANC 390 or equivalent ( DANC 312 , DANC 313 , DANC 414 , DANC 415 , DANC 416)
DANC 373 Production/Performance Lab (1 Credit Hour)
This course provides students opportunities to participate in productions in Theatre, Dance or Film. These positions provide hands-on experience in the discipline. Cross-listed with THEA 373 .
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
DANC 374 Production/Performance Lab (1 Credit Hour)
This course provides students opportunities to participate in productions in Theatre, Dance or Film. These positions provide hands-on experience in the discipline. Cross-listed with THEA 374 .
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
DANC 389W Dancing Power:  Dance as Communication and Transformation (3 Credit Hours)
Designed for dance majors or minors, this course focuses on the lives and contributions of dance artists who have most influenced the history of dance as art since the turn of the 20th century.  The class explores the many facets of dance and its relationship to other art forms.  Also included is a major research project and presentation focusing on a specific dance history topic. This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in ENGL 211C or equivalent
DANC 390 Improvisation (3 Credit Hours)
An exploration of creativity through structured exercises, games and problems. Students participate in experiential studies that explore improvisational approaches, devices and elements to gain skills in the art of improvisation. This course also includes group discussions of reading assignments and feedback sessions following the improvisations performed in class. Through readings, journal writings, and in-class exercises, students develop the skills to articulate what they see, feel and respond to as artists, performers, and observers. Cross-listed with THEA 390 .
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
DANC 393 Functional Anatomy for Movement Practices (3 Credit Hours)
This course is an analysis of human motion through a study of anatomy, kinesiology and movement fundamentals.
Prerequisites: DANC 201 or DANC 211 or DANC 235 or DANC 241 or DANC 321 or DANC 341 or DANC 361
DANC 395 Topics in Dance (3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics designed for nonmajors, or for elective credit within a major.  These courses appear in the course schedule, and are more fully described in a booklet distributed to academic advisors.
Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor
DANC 396 Topics in Dance (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics designed for nonmajors, or for elective credit within a major.  These courses appear in the course schedule, and and are more fully described in a booklet distributed to academic advisors.
Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor
DANC 404 Ballet Technique 4 (1-4 Credit Hours)
Continuation of ballet technique at an intermediate level.
Prerequisites: DANC 303 or permission of the instructor
DANC 405 Ballet Technique 5 (1-4 Credit Hours)
Continuation of ballet technique at an advanced level.
Prerequisites: DANC 404 or permission of the instructor
DANC 414 Modern Dance Technique 4 (1-4 Credit Hours)
Continuation of modern dance technique at an intermediate level.
Prerequisites: DANC 313 or permission of the instructor
DANC 415 Modern Dance Technique 5 (1-4 Credit Hours)
Continuation of modern dance technique at an advanced level.
Prerequisites: DANC 414 or permission of the instructor
DANC 423 Jazz Dance 3 (1 Credit Hour)
Continuation of jazz dance technique at an intermediate/advanced level.
Prerequisites: DANC 322 or permission of the instructor
DANC 424 Jazz Dance 4 (1 Credit Hour)
Continuation of jazz dance technique at an intermediate/advanced level.
Prerequisites: DANC 423 or permission of the instructor
DANC 463 Hip Hop Dance and Culture 3 (2 Credit Hours)
This course locates hip hop dance as a personal, interactive, and cultural expression. The course will focus primarily on the movement elements (Breakin, Popping, Locking, Party Dances, and Choreographic elements) of Hip Hop, deepening the breadth of knowledge students have been exposed to in DANC 361 and DANC 362 .
Prerequisites: DANC 361 and DANC 362 or permission of instructor
DANC 464 Hip Hop Dance and Culture 4 (2 Credit Hours)
This course locates hip hop dance as a personal, interactive, and cultural expression. The course will continue its study of the movement elements (Breakin, Popping, Locking, Party Dances, and choreographic elements) of Hip Hop, deepening the breadth of knowledge students have been exposed to in Hip Hop DANC 361 , DANC 362 and DANC 463 . Lastly a major focus of this course will be a test of self and how each student embraces the cypher and its many elements as a tool to continue the exploration into knowledge production, creative expression, and critical inquiry
Prerequisites: DANC 361 , DANC 362 and DANC 463 or permission of instructor
DANC 470 Dance Composition 2 (2 Credit Hours)
This course builds on the skills developed in Dance Composition 1, including the exploration of time, space and dynamics, with a focus on constructing fully realized group and solo dance compositions.
Prerequisites: DANC 370 and permission of the instructor
DANC 473 Production/Performance Lab (1 Credit Hour)
This course provides students opportunities to participate in productions in Theatre, Dance or Film. These positions provide hands-on experience in the discipline. Cross-listed with THEA 473 .
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
DANC 474 Production/Performance Lab (1 Credit Hour)
This course provides students opportunities to participate in productions in Theatre, Dance or Film. These positions provide hands-on experience in the discipline. Cross-listed with THEA 474 .
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
DANC 489 Principles of Teaching Dance (2 Credit Hours)
This course covers basic methods of movement education as applied to the teaching of ballet, modern dance, jazz, and movement for children.  An understanding of anatomical structure and mechanics is utilized in the analysis of student performance in dance class.  Specific objectives for dance exercises are explored.  Practical experiences in the planning, organization and structure of technique classes of various styles are designed to prepare students as dance educators.
Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor
DANC 490 Pedagogy for Dance Educators (3 Credit Hours)
Methods and instructional theories and strategies of movement education as applied to the teaching of ballet, modern dance, jazz, and movement for children.  Practical experience in the structure, organization and assessment of dance arts programs for the K-12 public school setting.
Prerequisites: A passing score on the Praxis I or equivalent instrument and admittance into the Teacher Education program
DANC 495/595 Topics in Dance (1-3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics designed to permit small groups of qualified students to work on subjects of mutual interest which, due to their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly.  These courses appear in the course schedule, and are more fully described in a booklet distributed to academic advisors.
Prerequisites: Appropriate survey course or permission of the instructor
DANC 496/596 Topics in Dance (1-3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics designed to permit small groups of qualified students to work on subjects of mutual interest which, due to their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly.  These courses appear in the course schedule, and are more fully described in a booklet distributed to academic advisors.
Prerequisites: Appropriate survey course or permission of the instructor
DANC 497/597 Tutorial Work in Special Topics in Dance (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor.  Conferences and papers as appropriate.
Prerequisites: Senior standing and approval of the department chair
DANC 498/598 Tutorial Work in Special Topics in Dance (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor.  Conferences and papers as appropriate.
Prerequisites: Senior standing and approval of the department chair
DANC 499 Senior Project (1 Credit Hour)
Completion of a major research project during one's senior year on a topic of particular interest to the student.  Topics to be selected under the direction of an instructor with conferences as appropriate.  (Qualifies as a CAP experience.)
Prerequisites: Senior standing and approval of the department chair
Theatre (THEA)
THEA 152R Acting One (3 Credit Hours)
An introduction to the physical and vocal principles of performance coupled with an opportunity to increase awareness of the constructed nature of social interactions. Students will explore confident self-expression through the physical, vocal, emotional and technical aspects of acting, as an art form and a daily experience, in a format that encourages freedom of imagination and personal growth. Emphasis is on the fundamental communication skills of presence, body language, imagination, and social communication.
THEA 173+ Theatre Activities (1 Credit Hour)
This course is an activity course in which the students participate in University Theatre Activities such as set building, costume construction or running crew for season productions.
THEA 174+ Theatre Activities (1 Credit Hour)
This is an activity course in which the students participate in University Theatre Activities such as set building, costume construction or running crew for season productions.
THEA 195 Topics in Theatre (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics designed for nonmajors, or for elective credit within a major.  These courses will appear in the course schedule, and will be more fully described in a booklet distributed to academic advisors.
THEA 196 Topics in Theatre (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics designed for nonmajors, or for elective credit within a major.  These courses will appear in the course schedule, and will be more fully described in a booklet distributed to academic advisors.
THEA 225 Introduction to Production Technology (3 Credit Hours)
Fundamentals of construction, lighting, and production techniques in contemporary theatre and film.  Students will apply acquired skills to active productions for ODU Theatre and Film productions.
THEA 227A Honors: Film Appreciation (3 Credit Hours)
This class will focus on both contextual and close text analysis of masterworks as they have influenced film art and industry.  Students in this course are expected to develop basic research, communication, viewing and critical thinking skills as they apply their knowledge to the analysis of the film experience.  Open to students in the Honors Program only.
THEA 230 Drama for Production (3 Credit Hours)
A practitioner-oriented examination of drama from its origins to the present.  Particular emphasis is placed on plays from around the world that are associated with changes in theatre practice.
THEA 241A The Theatre Experience (3 Credit Hours)
An introductory audience-oriented examination of the elements of theatre and their historical development through study of plays and performances; emphasis will be directed to actually experiencing live theatre.  Attendance at performances is required.
THEA 243H Theatre Histories (3 Credit Hours)
This course offers students a critical approach to interpreting theatre practices in history. As a fast-paced survey, it affords students a grounding in the histories of global theatre. Focusing on major political, cultural, economic, and social shifts, the course explores how those changes affected the development of theatre, drama, and performance.
THEA 244 Introduction to Production Design (3 Credit Hours)
An introduction to principles, methods, and materials used in designing stage and film productions.
THEA 248 Introduction to Stage Makeup (3 Credit Hours)
Develops skills and techniques for design and application of stage makeup.
THEA 252 Acting Two (3 Credit Hours)
Basic introduction to principles of acting which may be applied to stage and media and application of various techniques through exercises, improvisations, and performances of short scenes.
Prerequisites: THEA 152R
THEA 270A Film Appreciation (3 Credit Hours)
This class will focus on both contextual and close text analysis of masterworks as they have influenced film art and industry.  Students in this course are expected to develop basic research, communication, viewing and critical thinking skills as they apply their knowledge to the analysis of the film experience.
THEA 271 Introduction to Filmmaking (3 Credit Hours)
This course will introduce the beginning student to making movies. Students will learn the basics of working with cameras, lights, sound recording, video editing and post production. This is a hands-on production course. Cross-listed with COMM 271 / DANC 271 .
THEA 280T Entertainment Technologies (3 Credit Hours)
This course is an introduction to the entertainment industry including working methods, processes, and equipment for live, recorded, and interactive entertainment. The exploration will include theatre, opera, dance, concert productions, theme parks, themed-retail, film production, immersive, interactive and virtual environments, and gaming technology. Attention is given to the positive and negative aspects of entertainment technologies and how they impact culture and society.
THEA 295 Topics in Theatre (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics designed for nonmajors, or for elective credit within a major.  These courses will appear in the course schedule, and will be more fully described in a booklet distributed to all academic advisors.
THEA 320 Auditioning Technique (3 Credit Hours)
Course will examine practical audition skills and provide an orientation to the tools of procuring professional auditions, including head shots and resumes.  Emphasis will be placed on effectively selecting and preparing auditions for stage, film and television.
Prerequisites: THEA 152R and THEA 252
THEA 321 Production Management for Television and Stage (3 Credit Hours)
This course will assist students in understanding the elements of production management both in television and on stage.  The course emphasizes organizational and communication skills; technical production knowledge; professional rehearsal and performance protocol according to the rules of AEA, AFTRA and SAG as well as basic production budgeting and scheduling.
Prerequisites: THEA 225 or COMM 225 or permission of the instructor
THEA 325 Sound Design for Stage and Camera (3 Credit Hours)
This class will introduce the concepts and techniques of sound design and sound effects for the stage and camera.  Students will learn design of sound elements in both a live and recorded environment as well as learn the current equipment and software in digital sound reproduction.
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of instructor
THEA 330 The Short Script (3 Credit Hours)
This course builds upon the principles taught in Screenwriting 1 (or equivalent) using the short script as a basis for the exploration.  Utilizing concepts of characterization, plot, dialogue and narrative style, students should complete the course with several production-ready short scripts.
Prerequisites: COMM 346 or THEA 346
THEA 332 Making African-American Cinema (3 Credit Hours)
This introductory course on African-American cinema will focus on a variety of contemporary films, media clips, and video presentations concerning issues and topics that reflect the diversity within the African-American community of young adults between the ages of 18 to 25. The main goal of the class is to review historical films produced for African-Americans and utilize that data to conduct research and develop projects that represent the cultural diaspora of this audience, which is often not reflected in mainstream media, in Hollywood or major independent media outlets such as HBO or Showtime. Cross-listed with COMM 332.
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
THEA 334 Narrative Adaptation (3 Credit Hours)
This screenwriting course explores the ways teleplays, stage plays, and screenplays can be crafted using a variety of primary source materials. Through multiple screenings, writing exercises, and deep reading, it examines what constitutes an adaptable piece of prose and how that material can be transformed. Primary weight is given to the movement from novel to film.
Prerequisites: COMM 346 or THEA 346
THEA 341 Lighting Design for Stage and Film (3 Credit Hours)
A production course introducing students to the world of light and shadow, mood and composition by surveying lighting design, its technologies for stage and camera, and such principles as basic electrical theory and stage/studio/location design aesthetics.
Prerequisites: THEA 225 / COMM 225 or THEA 271 / COMM 271 or permission of instructor
THEA 342 Post-Production 1 (3 Credit Hours)
This course serves as an introduction to the art of video post-production. Students explore the theory and practice of various editing styles in order to gain a better understanding of how stories are constructed in the editing room. The course covers principles of post-production of narrative, documentary, and experimental films. Through demonstrations and hands-on experience, students learn editing techniques with an in-depth examination of tools and approaches in a non-linear editing system.
Prerequisites: COMM 271 or THEA 271 or DANC 271
THEA 345 Advanced Production Design (3 Credit Hours)
This course will explore advanced principles of design for the stage in the areas of scenery.  The process will include the application of various artistic styles to stage production.
Prerequisites: THEA 225 or COMM 225 or THEA 244
THEA 346 Screenwriting I (3 Credit Hours)
This course is an introduction to narrative screenwriting focusing on the traditional feature film. Students will study screenwriting principles through text reading, film viewing, script analysis and substantial writing assignments. Focus is on story structure, character development, action, dialogue, and proper screenplay format.
Prerequisites: ENGL 110C with a grade of C or better and ENGL 211C with a grade of C or better
THEA 347 Movement for the Actor (3 Credit Hours)
An examination through exercises and assignments of principles for developing a disciplined, flexible body for character creation.
Prerequisites: THEA 152R or permission of the instructor
THEA 348 Acting for the Camera (3 Credit Hours)
Course will examine the process of building characters for the camera, and the ways in which the conventions of the stage are adapted for the film or video audience.
Prerequisites: THEA 152R
THEA 349 Costume Design for Stage and Camera (3 Credit Hours)
This course explores the design aesthetic, historical context, and contemporary impact on performance of the costume garment and its accessories.  Students will explore the application of design principles in a practical experience.
Prerequisites: THEA 225 or COMM 225
THEA 352 Acting Three (3 Credit Hours)
Study of and experimentation with various theories concerning the preparation of roles and special performance characteristics of different styles and types of drama.  Considerable attention is directed toward scene study.
Prerequisites: THEA 152R and THEA 252
THEA 353 Animation (3 Credit Hours)
This is a project oriented, studio class that will focus on the art of animated storytelling from the traditional perspective of stop motion animation combined with digital post production. Students will engage in individual research, writing, storyboarding, editing, and sound creation to produce original short animations. Crosslisted with COMM 353 .
Prerequisites: COMM 271 or DANC 271 or THEA 271
THEA 355 Costume Crafts (3 Credit Hours)
This course will develop design principles and craft techniques to create a wide variety of costume crafts.  The course will focus on individual research, design elements and technical challenges.  Projects will encourage students to explore textile modification, various applications for clothing design, costume crafts and art materials.  Cross-listed with COMM 359 .
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of instructor
THEA 356 3D Animation 1 (3 Credit Hours)
This is a project-oriented studio class that will focus on the art of animated storytelling through the use of computer-based 3D animation.
Prerequisites: COMM 271 or THEA 271 or DANC 271
THEA 357 3D Animation 2 (3 Credit Hours)
This is a project-oriented studio class that will focus on the art of animated storytelling from the perspective of computer-based 3D animation, building on the skills developed in 3D Animation 1. Students will engage in individual research, writing, storyboarding, editing, and sound creation to produce original short animations.
Prerequisites: COMM 356 or THEA 356
THEA 358 Color for Digital Cinema & TV (3 Credit Hours)
This course will introduce students to color workflow in the digital cinema environment. The focus will be on working with color beginning with the camera, through color correction to delivery, mixing software-specific techniques with a deepening understanding of the underlying theories of color theory and practice. Students will learn and apply industry standard best practices in the field of visual post-production. This is a hands-on workshop style post-production course.
Prerequisites: COMM 271 or DANC 271 or THEA 271
THEA 360 Voice for the Stage I (3 Credit Hours)
This course will explore facets of vocal production, speech and expression necessary for an engaging performance on stage.  Through exercises and text work, the student will learn healthy vocal production, elements of clear speech and techniques for improving vocal range and expressiveness.
THEA 365 Internship in Film (3-6 Credit Hours)
Practicum/field experience in professional settings for students in all areas of Film. Pass/Fail only.
Prerequisites: Approval of the Director of Film and major advisor
THEA 367 Cooperative Education (1-3 Credit Hours)
Available for pass/fail grading only.  Student participation for credit based on the academic relevance of the work experience, criteria and evaluative procedures as formally determined by the department and the Cooperative Education program prior to the semester in which the work experience takes place.
Prerequisites: Approval of the department and the Career Development Services, in accordance with the policy for granting credit for Cooperative Education programs
THEA 368 Internship (3 Credit Hours)
A structured work experience with or without remuneration, in an appropriately related disciplinary field. An ePortfolio, 150 hours of site work, plus satisfactory evaluations by supervisor and cooperating faculty member are required. Available for pass/fail grading only. Available To Communication, Theatre, and Dance majors and minors only. Cross-listed with COMM 368 and DANC 368 .
Prerequisites: Approval of departmental internship director prior to registration
THEA 369 Internship at the Virginia Stage Company (3 Credit Hours)
A structured work experience with or without remuneration; a paper, a log and portfolio of work time plus satisfactory evaluations by supervisor and cooperating faculty member are required.  Pass/Fail only.
Prerequisites: Approval of Director of Theatre and VSC representative
THEA 371 History of Animation (3 Credit Hours)
This course traces the evolution of the animated film worldwide, from the silent to the modern era.  The purpose of the course is to provide students with a broad chronological and international overview of animated film masterworks.
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
THEA 373 Production/Performance Lab (1 Credit Hour)
This course provides students opportunities to participate in productions in Theatre, Dance or Film. These positions provide hands-on experience in the discipline. Cross-listed with DANC 373 .
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
THEA 374 Production/Performance Lab (1 Credit Hour)
This course provides students opportunities to participate in productions in Theatre, Dance or Film. These positions provide hands-on experience in the discipline. Cross-listed with DANC 374 .
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
THEA 375 Television Production (3 Credit Hours)
This course explores the basic process of producing television from script to presentation.
Prerequisites: THEA 271 or COMM 271 or permission of the instructor
THEA 380 Documentary Production I (3 Credit Hours)
This course offers the student an opportunity to explore the world of documentary filmmaking. Students will perform research to develop evidence in support of a thesis, then utilize the camera to capture a narrative story based on the thesis.  Through this process, the student is better able to understand documentary filmmaking.  Students will develop and deliver short documentary films by the end of the semester.
Prerequisites: THEA 271 or COMM 271 or DANC 271 with grade of C or higher
THEA 383 Directing the Actor (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed as a practical guide for directors to elicit strong performances from the actors who tell their stories. The class will establish vocabulary and practice techniques that are equally applicable to work in film or theatre. Ideally, the course will encourage students to think beyond genre as they create work that is both dramatically and humanly compelling.
Prerequisites: THEA 271 or COMM 271 or DANC 271 or THEA 152R
THEA 385 Cinematography (3 Credit Hours)
Introduces students to cinematography.  The course explores camera technique, blocking actors, lighting, and cinematography fundamentals.  The concepts of the course are applied to fiction and nonfiction cinema.  This is a production class.
Prerequisites: THEA 271 or COMM 271 or DANC 271 with grade of C or higher
THEA 386 Post-Production 2 (3 Credit Hours)
This course builds on the fundamentals learned in Post-Production I, exploring advanced post-production techniques in picture editing, color correction and grading, sound editing and mixing, VFX editing, title and graphics editing, chroma key and compositing. The focus will be on mixing software-specific techniques with deepening understanding of the underlying theories of editing, color theory and principles of sound post-production. The students will learn and apply industry standard best practices in the field of audiovisual post-production. This is a hands-on workshop style post-production course.
Prerequisites: COMM 342 OR THEA 342
THEA 387 TV News Production (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide students with an introduction to the reporting, writing, and production aspects of a television news program. Students will learn how to create 15- and 30-minute news broadcasts by developing story ideas and news gathering. Students will also learn the intricacies of shooting and editing video along with the production process involved in recording a live news broadcast. Each student will spend time both in front of and behind the television studio cameras. The goal of this course is to produce weekly news programs worthy of broadcast on local television. Students will assume the roles of reporter, writer, producer, floor director, photojournalist, videographer, technician, and more.
Pre- or corequisite: COMM 382 or ENGL 382
THEA 388 Motion Picture Aesthetics (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to develop within students a heightened and multifaceted awareness and appreciation for aesthetics of a particular type - motion picture aesthetics. Aesthetic considerations impact us intellectually, emotionally, psychologically, and viscerally. Professionals most definitely employ a language to filmmaking. One must learn the language of motion picture production and aesthetic design in order to convey concepts to their audiences.
Prerequisites: COMM 270A or THEA 270A
THEA 389 Sound Recording and Mixing for Film (3 Credit Hours)
This course will explore the best concepts in recording, editing and mixing audio for film and post-production. Students will be using Pro Tools hands-on to sync and mix audio to picture. Topics will include location audio, sound design, ADR, mixing, and more.
Prerequisites: THEA 271 or COMM 271 or DANC 271
THEA 390 Improvisation (3 Credit Hours)
An exploration of creativity through structured exercises, games and problems. Students participate in experiential studies that explore improvisational approaches, devices and elements to gain skills in the art of improvisation. This course also includes group discussions of reading assignments and feedback sessions following the improvisations performed in class. Through readings, journal writings, and in-class exercises, students develop the skills to articulate what they see, feel and respond to as performers and observers. Cross-listed with DANC 390 .
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
THEA 395 Topics in Theatre (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics designed for nonmajors, or for elective credit within a major.  These courses will appear in the course schedule, and will be more fully described to all academic advisors.
Prerequisites: Junior standing and permission of the instructor
THEA 396 Topics in Theatre (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics designed for nonmajors, or for elective credit within a major.  These courses will appear in the course schedule, and will be more fully described in a booklet distributed to all academic advisors.
Prerequisites: junior standing and permission of the instructor
THEA 430 TV Screenwriting (3 Credit Hours)
This course concentrates on the development and delivery of industry standard one-hour long TV scripts and the associated script 'bible.' Students will study sample scripts from broadcast TV programs and develop their own spec scripts. Cross-listed with COMM 430 .
Prerequisites: COMM 346 or THEA 346
THEA 439 WHRO Production (3 Credit Hours)
This is an experiential style course in the art and business of documentary production in the hands-on, professional environment of WHRO, which operates Hampton Roads’ PBS affiliate TV station as well as two public radio stations. Students will be guided through the production of content for WHRO by an ODU faculty member and the WHRO staff. Cross-listed with COMM 439 .
Prerequisites: COMM 271 or THEA 271 or DANC 271
THEA 440 Documentary Filmmaking Study Abroad (3 Credit Hours)
This is an in-the-field study abroad course where students will, in small groups, produce a short documentary film about a local NGO (Non-Governmental Organization) creating positive change in the local community.
Prerequisites: THEA 271 or COMM 271 or DANC 271 with a grade of C or higher
THEA 442/542 Principles of Directing (3 Credit Hours)
An examination and practical application of principles of stage direction as influenced by play script, acting talent, set and lighting design, and the technical facilities of production organizations.
Prerequisites: THEA 152R and THEA 230 , and THEA 244 or permission of the instructor
THEA 446 Directing for the Camera (3 Credit Hours)
This course seeks to provide students with fundamental principles and practical techniques of directing the narrative fiction film: script development and analysis, production planning, shot composition and framing, and working with actors and crew.
Prerequisites: THEA 383 or COMM 383 with a grade of C or higher
THEA 449W/549 Script and Performance Analysis (3 Credit Hours)
Approaches script analysis from a directorial perspective through the written examination of action, character, language, music, and spectacle, as well as the play's production history and historical context, to discover how plays might be staged for the contemporary audience.  Plays in production will be examined from a critical perspective with attention to artistic interpretation in the areas of direction, design, and performance.  This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: THEA 152R , THEA 230 , THEA 244 , and a grade of C or better in ENGL 110C and ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C , or permission of the instructor
THEA 451 Costume Design for Opera and Musical Theatre (3 Credit Hours)
This course will provide opportunities for hands-on training for all stages of the design process. Students will learn sewing techniques, create hand-dyed fabric, construction techniques, period costume research, character analysis, wig construction, and assist with the design. Project designs will be used in a main stage production presented by the Communication & Theatre Arts and Music departments at Old Dominion University. Students will also have the opportunity to run a live performance and assist with garment care, make-up, hair design and costume props.
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of instructor
THEA 452/552 Acting Four (3 Credit Hours)
An advanced scene study class exploring issues of style and period pertinent to portraying characters on stage.
Prerequisites: THEA 152R , THEA 252 and THEA 352
THEA 453 Voice Over (3 Credit Hours)
This course is for students who are interested in the field of voice over for commercials, narration, industrials, animation, Internet, and gaming. Students will practice voicing copy using acting techniques, vocal techniques, building characters, and analyzing copy. Students will learn to select, edit and prepare copy for a future demo and learn to perform cold voice over auditions. This is a performance-oriented course that is a workout session each day. Crosslisted with COMM 453 .
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of instructor
THEA 460 Voice for the Stage II (3 Credit Hours)
Course will continue the study of vocal production, speech and expression necessary for on stage performance of both classical and modern text.  Techniques for producing effective dialects will be introduced as well as the application of dialect towards character development.
Prerequisites: THEA 152R
THEA 471W/571 International Film History (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of world cinema as a technology, a business, an institution, and an art form from its inception to the present.  Emphasis is on the narrative fiction film, its technological and aesthetic development, economic organization, and socio-cultural context.  Representative classic and contemporary works will be screened and analyzed.  This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: COMM 270A or THEA 270A , a grade of C or better in ENGL 110C and ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C , and junior standing or permission of the instructor
THEA 472 Acting Five (3 Credit Hours)
An examination and advanced study of techniques relevant to specialized theatre performance.  This course will allow advanced students the opportunity to explore a variety of work including experimental theatre, avant garde works, mediated performance and visual based theatre.
Prerequisites: THEA 152R and THEA 252 or permission of instructor
THEA 473 Production/Performance Lab (1 Credit Hour)
This course provides students opportunities to participate in productions in Theatre, Dance or Film. These experiences provide hands-on experience in the discipline. Cross-listed with DANC 473 .
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
THEA 474 Production/Performance Lab (1 Credit Hour)
This course provides students opportunities to participate in productions in Theatre, Dance or Film. These experiences provide hands-on experience in the discipline. Cross-listed with DANC 474 .
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
THEA 479W/579 American Film History (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of American motion pictures as an art form, a business and an institution from its inception to the present.  Primary attention is accorded to the narrative fiction film, its aesthetic and technological development, economic organization and social impact.  This course highlights the many connections between film history and American culture. This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in ENGL 110C and ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C ; THEA 270A or COMM 270A ; and junior standing or permission of the instructor
THEA 480/580 Documentary Production II (3 Credit Hours)
Students will continue the work performed in THEA 380 with more advanced proposals, research, and production work.
Prerequisites: THEA 380 or COMM 380
THEA 482 Screenwriting II (3 Credit Hours)
Students will explore storytelling for cinema through screenplay analysis, scene study, character development, narrative structure, and story development.  This upper-level, hands-on course applies a range of screenwriting principles to writing exercises, critique, and construction of the first half of a feature-length screenplay.
Prerequisites: COMM 346 or THEA 346 with a grade of C or better
THEA 483 Advanced Cinema Projects (3 Credit Hours)
This is an intensive capstone course in film production.  Students experience pre-production, production, and post-production phases while creating a product to be entered in regional and national competitions.
Prerequisites: COMM 383 or THEA 383
THEA 485 Film and Television Genres (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to examine the conventions and meanings of various film and television genres within their broader aesthetic, socio-historical, cultural, and political contexts.  Each time the class is offered it will focus in depth on a different genre, such as the gangster, the Western, the musical, the comedy, science fiction, among others. Class may be repeated for credit as long as the genres are different.
Prerequisites: COMM 270A or THEA 270A
THEA 486/586 Advanced Filmmaking (3 Credit Hours)
This course offers students an opportunity to collaborate on a faculty led project beyond the scope of typical classroom projects.  Students will execute an assigned duty for the duration of the semester.
Prerequisites: permission of the instructor
THEA 487 Advanced TV News Production (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide students with advanced instruction in reporting, writing, and production for a television news program. Students will take on important roles in 15- and 30-minute news broadcasts and refine their skills in shooting and editing video. The goal of this course is to produce weekly news programs worthy of broadcast on local television. Students will receive significant experience in front of the camera as news, sports, and entertainment anchors/reporters as well as leadership positions in the television studio during the live broadcasts.
Prerequisites: COMM 387 , THEA 387 or ENGL 387
THEA 489 Methods of Teaching Theatre (3 Credit Hours)
Focuses on conceptual foundations of theatre education including its history, and on methods and materials for classroom instruction and theatrical rehearsals and performances.
Prerequisites: Junior standing
THEA 490 Theatre Education Practicum (1 Credit Hour)
This course provides students with an opportunity to further develop their understanding of theatre instruction by personal observation and participation in the classroom setting.
Prerequisites: Junior standing and permission of the College of Education
THEA 492 Cinematography 2 (3 Credit Hours)
This course builds on the fundamentals learned in Cinematography 1, exploring advanced camera and lighting techniques primarily used in narrative cinema. Advanced cameras, grip, electric, and lighting equipment will be covered, exposing students to gear and practices beyond the scope of a standard student production. This is a production class.
Prerequisites: COMM 385 or THEA 385
THEA 493 Feature Film Production (6 Credit Hours)
This intensive course will bring students onto the set of a feature film production, working crew positions as the film is shot. Cross-listed with COMM 493 .
Prerequisites: COMM 271 / THEA 271 / DANC 271 and two of the following: COMM 380 / THEA 380 , COMM 383 / THEA 383 , COMM 385 / THEA 385 , COMM 386 / THEA 386 , COMM 389 / THEA 389 , COMM 483 / THEA 483 , COMM 486 / THEA 486 , COMM 492 / THEA 492 with a grade of C or better
THEA 495/595 Topics in Theatre (1-3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics designed to permit small groups of qualified students to work on subjects of mutual interest which, due to their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly.  These courses will appear in the course schedule.
Prerequisites: Appropriate survey course or permission of the instructor
THEA 496/596 Topics in Theatre (1-3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics designed to permit small groups of qualified students to work on subjects of mutual interest which, due to their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly.  These courses will appear in the course schedule.
Prerequisites: appropriate survey course or permission of the instructor
THEA 497/597 Tutorial Work in Special Topics in Theatre (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor.
Prerequisites: Senior standing
THEA 498/598 Tutorial Work in Special Topics in Theatre (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor.  Conferences and papers as appropriate.
Prerequisites: senior standing
THEA 499 Senior Project (1 Credit Hour)
Completion of a creative project leading to a written work and a presentation during a student's senior year related to student's interest area.  Topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor with conferences as appropriate.
Prerequisites: Senior standing as theatre major and approval of major advisor
Search catalog
