Additional Requirements
Dennis Gregory, Graduate Program Director
Working professionals who aspire to advance in higher education administration will find the EdS program a meaningful base for building toward their professional objectives. Students who enter the EdS program have diverse backgrounds, experiences, and goals.  For this reason they have the ability, through consultation with their advisor, to tailor the cognate chosen to fulfill their degree obligations towards these goals.
Admission
Prospective students seeking admission to the EdS program with a Concentration in Higher Education must:
Meet all University admission requirements as listed in the Old Dominion University Catalog;
Have a completed Master's degree in an appropriate discipline from a regionally accredited university, and submit transcripts of all undergraduate and graduate work with a minimum GPA of 3.5. Degrees that are equivalent to a Master’s degree such as LLB, JD, and DDS are also acceptable;
Provide two (2) letters of recommendation. At least one letter must come from a professor or an individual who describes the applicant's academic performance and writing ability. Letters from senior-level leaders that endorse the applicant's leadership potential are encouraged;
Provide a 1-page single-spaced essay that addresses the questions: What are your professional goals? Why do you wish to obtain the specific degree for which you are applying?
Provide an original 2-page single-spaced academic writing sample. Pick one current issue facing higher education of interest to you. What is the issue? Why is the issue important to the field of higher education research and practice?
Provide a CV or resume that describes the applicant’s academic and professional background;
Applicants whose native language is not English must submit a current score for the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) iBT of at least 80.
Applicants whose admission credentials are slightly below the required minimum will be considered for provisional admission.
Non-degree students are limited to a maximum of two HIED, CCL, and/or FOUN courses prior to admission unless they receive permission from the GPD. Non-degree students must receive academic advising by a Higher Education program faculty member prior to enrollment in any course as a non-degree student. Performance in classes as a non-degree student will not guarantee admission into the program.
Curriculum Requirements
The Education Specialist in Higher Education Concentration requires the completion of a minimum of 30 credit hours beyond the master’s degree. Due to the wide variation of backgrounds among students seeking this degree, the curricular requirements will be determined based upon the applicant’s background.
Course List
