COUN 495 Topics (1-6 Credit Hours)
Study of selected topics in counseling.
Prerequisites: permission of the instructor
COUN 497 Topics in Counseling (1-6 Credit Hours)
Study of selected topics in counseling.
Prerequisites: permission of the instructor
COUN 601 Principles of  Professional Counseling and Ethics (3 Credit Hours)
Aligned with a spiral approach to learning, students will be introduced to theory, practice, methods, basic principles, and concepts used by counselors in educational settings and community agencies.  In subsequent courses, these topics will be revisited in depth.  The course will emphasize professional and ethical issues related to counseling.
COUN 631 Counseling for Lifespan Development (3 Credit Hours)
A study of phase and stage theories of lifespan development with application to counseling.  Current research findings on major developmental issues (e.g., gender) will be emphasized.
Prerequisites: Admission to counseling graduate program or graduate program director approval
COUN 633 Counseling and Psychotherapy Techniques (3 Credit Hours)
The course focuses on development of attitudes and skills essential to effective professional counseling.  Emphasis is on conducting the helping interview, as well as conducting an intake interview, a mental status evaluation, a biopsychosocial history, a mental health history, and a psychological assessment for treatment planning and caseload management.
Pre- or corequisite: Admission to Counseling Graduate Program or Graduate Program Director approval
COUN 634 Advanced Counseling and Psychotherapy Techniques, Crisis, and Trauma (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides an overview of advanced techniques used by counselors, including crisis and trauma response and the principles of trauma-informed care.
Prerequisites: COUN 601 , COUN 650 , and COUN 633 with a grade of B or higher
COUN 642 Structured Counseling Groups (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to prepare students to facilitate structured counseling groups for children and adolescents primarily in the K-12 school setting.   CACREP Required Content: GROUP WORK - studies that provide both theoretical and experiential understandings of group purpose, development, dynamics, theories, methods, skills, and other group approaches in a multicultural society, including all of the following: (a) principles of group dynamics, including group process components, developmental stage theories, group members' roles and behaviors, and therapeutic factors of group work; (b) group leadership or facilitation styles and approaches, including characteristics of various types of group leaders and leadership styles; (c) theories of group counseling, including commonalities, distinguishing characteristics, and pertinent research and literature; and (d) group counseling methods, including group counselor orientations and behaviors, appropriate selection criteria and methods, and methods of evaluation of effectiveness.  Students will be required to complete 30 hours of fieldwork with K-12 aged youth, preferably in a school setting.
Prerequisites: Admission to Counseling graduate program or graduate program director approval; COUN 601 , COUN 633 , COUN 650 and COUN 678
COUN 644 Group Counseling and Psychotherapy (3 Credit Hours)
Developing effective group leadership competencies is the focus for the course.  Identification of group dynamics, use of group level process, and the self-development of the leader are some major topics.
Prerequisites: Admission to Counseling graduate program or graduate program director approval; COUN 601 , COUN 633 , and COUN 650
COUN 645 Testing and Client Assessment (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines individual and group approaches to formal and informal assessment techniques, including diagnosis.  It includes an examination of: the history of assessment; basic test statistics; test worthiness (reliability, validity, and cross-cultural issues); the selection, administration, and interpretation of assessment instruments; and ethical and legal issues relative to assessment.  The focus of this class is on major concepts and principles of psychological testing and evaluation and use of standardized instruments with differing populations. Pre- or
COUN 647 Addictive Disorders (3 Credit Hours)
Examines the etiology, risk factors, assessment, counseling approaches and treatment of alcoholism and other addictions.
Prerequisites: Admission to Counseling graduate program or graduate program director approval; COUN 601 , COUN 633 , and COUN 650
COUN 648 Foundations of Career Development (3 Credit Hours)
Principles and theories of career development, occupational and educational information, employment trends, concepts and principles for effective work in educational and career planning and development are considered.
Prerequisites: Admission to Counseling graduate program or graduate program director approval; COUN 601 , COUN 645 , and COUN 650
COUN 650 Theories of Counseling and Psychotherapy (3 Credit Hours)
A study of major theories of counseling and psychotherapy.  The primary focus is on providing students with a theoretical foundation upon which to develop their own approach for providing counseling and psychotherapy.
COUN 655 Social and Cultural Issues in Counseling (3 Credit Hours)
Designed to engage helping professionals in cultural self-awareness and the search for solutions to disparities in society through counseling work.  Emphasis on the social identities of gender, race, ethnicity, religion, ability, class, sexual orientation, and age.
Prerequisites: Admission to counseling graduate program or graduate program director approval and COUN 601
COUN 666 Internship in College Counseling (1-6 Credit Hours)
This internship is designed to provide individual students with a planned program of advanced on-the-job professional experience in a college or university setting. A university instructor will coordinate internship assignments.  An experienced professional in the college or university setting will provide direct supervision.  Available for pass/fail grading only. Completion of a background check is required prior to commencing the field placement.
Prerequisites: Departmental permission and COUN 601 , COUN 633 , COUN 634 , COUN 644 , COUN 645 , COUN 648 , COUN 650 , COUN 669 , COUN 685 , and COUN 686
COUN 667 Internship in Mental Health Counseling (1-9 Credit Hours)
This counselor education experience is designed to provide a planned program of supervised clinical instruction in mental health counseling in an appropriate professional setting, including provision of direct service and performance of indirect professional activities under appropriate clinical supervision of a site supervisor as well as classroom instruction and supervision. This pass/fail course requires successful completion of 300 hours of counseling field placement work and 120 hours of direct service in each of two semesters of enrollment. Completion of a background check is required prior to commencing the field placement.
Prerequisites: Admission to the Counseling Graduate Program or graduate program director approval, approved application; COUN 601 , COUN 633 , COUN 634 , COUN 644 , COUN 645 , COUN 648 , COUN 650 , COUN 669 , COUN 680 , and COUN 685
COUN 668 Internship in School Counseling (1-6 Credit Hours)
This internship is designed to provide individual students with a planned program of advanced on-the-job professional experience in a school setting. A university instructor will coordinate internship assignments. An experienced professional in the school setting will provide direct supervision. Available for pass/fail grading only. Completion of a background check is required prior to commencing the field placement.
Prerequisites: Admission to the Counseling Graduate Program or graduate director approval; approved application; COUN 601 , COUN 633 , COUN 634 , COUN 642 , COUN 645 , COUN 648 , COUN 650 , COUN 669 , COUN 676 , COUN 677 & COUN 678
COUN 669 Practicum in Counseling (3 Credit Hours)
This supervised experience will enable students to practice basic and intermediate individual and group counseling skills with clients while integrating knowledge and skills learned in previous course work. Completion of a background check is required prior to commencing the field placement.
Prerequisites: Admission to the Counseling graduate program or graduate director approval; COUN 601 , COUN 633 , COUN 642 or COUN 644 , COUN 650 , and COUN 634 with a grade of B or higher  (see Program Handbook for other prerequisites based on specialty area)
COUN 670 Introduction to Counseling Supervision (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides an opportunity to learn one's personal style for supervision, to have supervised field supervision experiences and to gain an understanding of the different models of supervision.
Prerequisites: Admission to the Counseling Graduate Program or graduate director approval; COUN 601 , COUN 669
COUN 676 Professional Issues in School Counseling K-12 (3 Credit Hours)
A professional seminar that emphasizes the contemporary role of the school counselor as leader and advocate in delivering school counseling programs to all students.  Emphasis is placed on acquiring the awareness, knowledge and skills necessary to negotiate the cultural, educational, and contextual forces that impact the lives and academic achievement of students in a pluralistic society.  Twenty hours of observation in a school is required.  Completion of a background check is required prior to commencing the field placement. In addition, students are also required to attend a one-day program on a pre-determined date during the semester.
Prerequisites: Admission to the Counseling Graduate Program or graduate director approval
COUN 677 School Culture, Learning, and Classroom Management (3 Credit Hours)
School counselor's role in contributing to a safe, equitable, and culturally responsive school culture; promoting student learning and achievement; and the practice of effective teaching and classroom management.  Cultural, political, economic, ethical, and legal issues are addressed.  Ten hours of observation in a school is required. Completion of a background check is required prior to commencing the field placement.
Prerequisites: Admission to the Counseling graduate program or graduate program director approval; COUN 676
COUN 678 Counseling Children and Adolescents in School Settings (3 Credit Hours)
This course will provide an overview of theories and techniques of counseling children and adolescents in school settings.  Emphasis will be placed upon the counselor's role as a facilitator of normal developmental processes to promote academic success.
Prerequisites: Admission to the Counseling graduate program or graduate director approval; COUN 601 , COUN 633 , and COUN 650
COUN 679 School Counseling Program Development  K-12 (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed as a capstone experience that synthesizes graduate course work into a practical school counseling program manual.  Emphasis is placed on assessment, data collection and analysis, design and development, implementation and evaluation of systemic school counseling programs K-12.  Specific emphasis is given to the integration of assessed needs, the National Standards for School Counseling Programs and the Virginia Standards of Learning.
Prerequisites: Admission to the Counseling Graduate Program or graduate director approval; COUN 601 , COUN 642 or COUN 644 , COUN 648 , and COUN 676
COUN 680 Mental Health Counseling (3 Credit Hours)
This course will examine the broad range of roles and functions of the mental health counselor within contemporary professional practice settings.
Prerequisites: Admission to the counseling graduate program or graduate director approval
COUN 681 Couples Counseling (3 Credit Hours)
Couples counseling focuses on development of effective counseling skills in working with couples.
Prerequisites: Admission to the Counseling graduate program or graduate director approval; COUN 601 , COUN 633 , and COUN 650
COUN 685 Diagnosis and Treatment Planning in Mental Health Counseling (3 Credit Hours)
A course focused on developing knowledge, attitudes, and skills essential to effective DSM-5 diagnosis, client conceptualization assessment, and clinical treatment planning.   Emphasis on the use of client conceptualization models as a basis for treatment planning in mental health counseling.
Prerequisites: Admission to the Counseling graduate program or graduate director approval; COUN 601 , COUN 633 , COUN 645 , and COUN 650
COUN 686 College Counseling (3 Credit Hours)
Overview of counseling services provided on college and university campuses.  Topics include wellness of students, multicultural issues, ethical and legal issues, crisis and disaster response, advocacy, and program evaluation.
Prerequisites: Admission to the counseling graduate program or graduate program director approval
COUN 689 Understanding Military Connected Children and Families (4 Credit Hours)
Participants will learn about the unique academic, social, and emotional challenges faced by military connected children and their families.  Participants will review, analyze and practice research-based learning and behavioral strategies and interventions to address these needs.  This course will also introduce effective practices for supporting children through deployment separation, reunion and reintegration, and grief and trauma, including promoting school connectedness, fostering resiliency, facilitating coping skills, and designing customized academic, social, and behavioral supports.  This course is required for completion of the Military Child and Family Education graduate certificate.
Prerequisites: Acceptance into the Military Child and Families Graduate Certificate Program
COUN 691 Family Systems and Family Development (3 Credit Hours)
The course offers a study of the family as a system, family life cycle stages, tasks, and difficulties that families may experience as they move through their developmental stages.  Concepts and principles applicable to helping people within a systems perspective will also be discussed.
Prerequisites: Admission to the Counseling graduate program or graduate director approval; COUN 601 , COUN 633 , and COUN 650
COUN 695 Topics in Counseling (1-3 Credit Hours)
The study of selected topics in counseling.
Prerequisites: Admission to the counseling graduate program or graduate director approval
COUN 697 Independent Study (3-6 Credit Hours)
Individualized study under the supervision of a graduate faculty member.
COUN 698 Research in Counseling (3 Credit Hours)
Research on a topic or project related to counseling.
Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor
COUN 707 Adult and College Student Development (3 Credit Hours)
Exploration of theories informing practice regarding late adolescent, young adult, and adult psychological and cognitive development, adjustment, and learning in the two- and four- year college and university context.  Influences of individual differences highlighted.  Applications for college counseling, higher education, and community college practitioners, professionals, and leaders.
COUN 742 Advanced Counseling Theory and Practice (3 Credit Hours)
An in-depth study of selected counseling theories through the study of cases.
COUN 744 Advanced Group Counseling. (3 Credit Hours)
Development of group leadership skills through group experiences in class and in the field.
Prerequisites: COUN 601 , COUN 633 , COUN 644 , COUN 645 , and COUN 650
COUN 783 Complementary and Alternative Therapies (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides an overview of complementary and alternative therapies being used in mental health today, looking at their effectiveness and safety in treating specific client populations and for use in treating specific disorders, including ADHD, addictions, and anxiety. Modalities covered include acupuncture, nutritional medicine, herbal medicine, biofeedback, meditation, hypnotherapy, aromatherapy, and others.
Prerequisites: Admission to the Counseling graduate program or graduate program director approval
COUN 786 Spirituality in Counseling (3 Credit Hours)
An overview of methods for integrating spirituality into counseling as a means of promoting holistic wellness for both clients and counselors. Emphasis will be placed upon theories of spiritual development, beliefs inherent in major wisdom traditions, implicit and explicit strategies for integrating spirituality into counseling, and the counselor's own personal and professional awareness and growth.
COUN 795 Topics in Counseling (1-6 Credit Hours)
The study of selected topics in counseling.
COUN 797 Topics in Counseling (1-6 Credit Hours)
Individual study under the supervision of a graduate faculty member.
COUN 801 Current Issues in Counseling and Counselor Education (3 Credit Hours)
The course will focus on the current issues in counseling to include the role of ethical and legal considerations in counselor education and supervision, theories and skills in leadership, social and cultural issues to include social change theory and advocacy action planning, and developmental counseling.
COUN 807 Adult and College Student Development (3 Credit Hours)
Exploration of theories informing practice regarding late adolescent, young adult, and adult psychological and cognitive development, adjustment, and learning in the two- and four- year college and university context.  Influences of individual differences highlighted.  Applications for college counseling, higher education, and community college practitioners, professionals, and leaders.
COUN 820 Counselor Education Teaching and Practice (3 Credit Hours)
This course prepares students to teach counseling and related courses.  Topics covered are learning theories, retention of material, motivation, classroom instructional strategies and techniques, and assessment of learning from the core learning expectations.
COUN 835 Advanced Counseling Research Design and Assessment (3 Credit Hours)
The doctoral-level course examines advanced topics and controversies in qualitative and quantitative counseling research; this integration of theoretical with applied counseling material will augment the department's standard doctoral research offerings.
Prerequisites: FOUN 814 and FOUN 722
COUN 842 Advanced Counseling Theory and Practice (3 Credit Hours)
An in-depth study of selected counseling theories through the study of cases.
COUN 844 Advanced Group Counseling (3 Credit Hours)
Development of group leadership skills through group experiences in class and in the field.
COUN 845 Diagnosis and Treatment Planning (3 Credit Hours)
COUN 846 Advanced Counseling Supervision (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides advanced training and skill development in supervision. Specific topics in supervision will also be examined. These include: ethical and legal issues, multicultural competency in supervision; theories of counselor development; theories/models, processes, and skills in supervision.
COUN 848 Multicultural Perspectives in Counselor Education, Supervision, and Research (3 Credit Hours)
Counseling doctoral students will study multicultural issues in counselor preparation graduate programs, counseling supervision, and counseling research.
Prerequisites: Admission to Ph.D. program or graduate program director approval
COUN 868 Internship in Counseling (3-6 Credit Hours)
This internship is designed to provide individual students with a planned program of advanced on-the-job professional experience in a college, school, or community/agency setting. In addition, supervisory and teaching experiences are required. Internship assignments will be controlled and coordinated by a university instructor.  Direct supervision is given by an experienced professional in the setting.  Minimum of 600 hours.
COUN 869 Advanced Supervised Practicum in Counseling (3 Credit Hours)
This advanced supervised practicum in counseling experience will enable doctoral-level students to develop and/or refine advanced counseling skills and conceptually link counselor practice and supervision.  Minimum of 200 hours.
Prerequisites: COUN 801 , COUN 820 , COUN 742 / COUN 842 , COUN 744 / COUN 844
COUN 883 Complementary & Alternative Therapies in Mental Health Counseling (3 Credit Hours)
The course provides an overview of complementary and alternative therapies being used in mental health today, looking at their effectiveness and safety in treating specific client populations and for use in treating specific disorders, including ADHD, depression, addictions, and anxiety. Modalities covered include acupuncture, nutritional medicine, herbal medicine, biofeedback, meditation, hypnotherapy, aromatherapy, and others.
Prerequisites: Admission to the Counseling graduate program or graduate program director approval
COUN 886 Spirituality in Counseling (3 Credit Hours)
An overview of methods for integrating spirituality into counseling as a means of promoting holistic wellness for both clients and counselors. Emphasis will be placed upon theories of spiritual development, beliefs inherent in major wisdom traditions, implicit and explicit strategies for integrating spirituality into counseling, and the counselor's own personal and professional awareness and growth.
COUN 895 Topics in Counseling (1-6 Credit Hours)
The study of selected topics in counseling.
COUN 897 Independent Study (3-6 Credit Hours)
Individualized study under the supervision of a graduate faculty member.
COUN 898 Dissertation Seminar (3 Credit Hours)
This seminar is designed to assist students in making substantive progress in identifying and developing their dissertation proposal.  Students will critically examine the current literature associated with their research interests and examine applicable conceptual constructs and methodologies.
COUN 899 Dissertation (1-12 Credit Hours)
1-12 credits.
COUN 998 Master's Graduate Credit (1 Credit Hour)
This course is a pass/fail course for master's students in their final semester. It may be taken to fulfill the registration requirement necessary for graduation.  All master's students are required to be registered for at least one graduate credit hour in the semester of their graduation.
COUN 999 Doctoral Graduate Credit (1 Credit Hour)
This course is a pass/fail course doctoral students may take to maintain active status after successfully passing the candidacy examination.  All doctoral students are required to be registered for at least one graduate credit hour every semester until their graduation.
Search catalog
