State Regulatory Authorizations and Licensure Disclosures
State Authorization
Old Dominion University is a participating institution of the National Council for State Authorization Reciprocity Agreements (NC-SARA), which allows online delivery of distance education to other member states. ODU continues to monitor developments in the relevant laws in every state. If authorization or licensure is necessary or becomes necessary, Old Dominion University will obtain the necessary approvals.
Old Dominion University is currently exempt from authorization for online programs in California.
State Contact Information
Pursuant to the United States Department of Education’s Program Integrity Rule, each institution of higher education is required to provide all prospective and current students with the contact information of the state agency or agencies that handle complaints against postsecondary education institutions offering distance learning within that state.
Students are encouraged to use Old Dominion University’s internal complaint/review policies and procedures prior to filing a complaint with a state agency.
A list of complaint contacts for each state is online here .
NC-SARA also outlines the student complaint process on their website .
Additional Information for Residents of Washington State
Program-specific disclosures required by Washington state have been incorporated into the licensure disclosures for Washington . They can also be viewed separately here .
Updated November 2019
Licensure Disclosures
Some degree and certificate programs at Old Dominion University are designed to prepare students for professional licensure. As of July 1, 2020, we are complying with federal regulations that require ODU to disclose to potential students whether these programs 1) meet educational requirements for licensure in their state; 2) do not meet educational requirements for licensure in their state; or 3) if we have not made a determination about meeting educational requirements for licensure in their state.
View the Licensure Disclosure Directory for programs available through ODUGlobal
Questions or concerns?
If you have any questions or concerns regarding state authorization or state licensure disclosures, or if you believe any of this information to be in error, please contact us at stateauth@odu.edu .
Students with questions about whether a program will lead to licensure in their state can explore the licensure disclosure directory , send us their contact information with the form on a specific program page, or click here to send us a question with more details .
Old Dominion University
Gornto Hall, Norfolk, VA 23529
Footer
