Additional Requirements
Justin Haegele, Ph.D. 2009 Student Recreation Center 757-683-5338 jhaegele@odu.edu
The goal of our doctoral program is to prepare professionals with research knowledge, critical thinking skills and problem solving abilities required to be successful leaders, scholars, and educators. The program provides a solid theoretical foundation, advanced methodological training, one-on-one mentorship, and opportunities to teach undergraduate courses.
We offer a PhD in Education with a concentration in Human Movement Sciences. There are two emphasis areas within the HMS concentration. These include:
Sport & Recreation Management Emphasis – this area focuses on issues related to the administration of sport and recreation organizations. Graduates are prepared for careers as faculty or administrators in higher education, private organizations, public agencies, and/or other research-based institutions.
Health & Sport Pedagogy Emphasis – this area focuses on research, scholarship, and leadership opportunities in health and sport pedagogy. This program prepares individuals for academic positions in departments of physical education/ kinesiology at universities and colleges.
Admission
Admission and Entrance Requirements
Admission to the Human Movement Sciences concentration of the PhD in Education is competitive and meeting the minimum requirements does not ensure admission to the program. The admissions committee reviews applications and considers a number of criteria, including a goodness of fit between student and faculty.
The deadline for applying is January 15. Applicants may be contacted to set up an interview as part of the final selection process.
Individuals interested in applying for the doctoral program with a concentration in Human Movement Sciences must submit the following:
An application to the University. Contact the Office of Graduate Admissions for applications. Applications for graduate study can be completed online or submitted to the Office of Graduate Admissions (757-683-3685 ). Apply for the PhD Human Movement Sciences Concentration.
Official transcripts of all undergraduate and graduate courses and degrees completed. To be considered for the program, applicants must have completed a Bachelor's and a Master's degree from regionally accredited colleges/universities. At least one degree should be in a related discipline to the emphasis area. A minimum GPA of 3.5 (on a 4.0 scale) for the Master's degree is required.
Two writing samples. The first writing sample should be a research-based document that includes citations and a list of references. This could be a submitted manuscript or published article, a summary of your thesis, or a research paper from a graduate course. The second writing sample should be a personal statement that explains your qualifications, professional and career goals, and reasons for seeking the PhD In this second essay, you must also identify the potential professor(s) at ODU with whom you share common research interests.
A current copy of your résumé or Curriculum Vitae.
Three letters of recommendation from professional sources qualified to assess your suitability for study at the doctoral level. One letter of recommendation should be from a graduate advisor or faculty member and one should be from a current or former supervisor.
Official GRE scores taken within the last 5 years that indicate a total score of at least 297 (1000 by former scoring standard) for both the verbal reasoning and quantitative reasoning sections and a minimum of 4.5 on the analytical writing component. While these scores are recommended, other portions of the total application package will be considered. The Sport and Recreation Management emphasis area will also accept GMAT scores of 470 or higher.
Applicants whose native language is not English must also submit current scores for the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) of at least 550, or other equivalent scores.
After successful advancement to candidacy, all doctoral students are required to be registered for at least one graduate credit hour each term (fall, spring, and summer) until the degree is completed, including the semester in which they graduate. Failure to comply with this requirement will result in charges to the student’s account for one graduate credit hour plus required fees for each semester after passing the candidacy examination. Students are not eligible for graduation until all charges are paid.
Curriculum
Justin Haegele, Ph.D., Graduate Program Director 2009 Student Recreation Center 757-683-5338
Requirements for the emphasis are as follows (minimum of 60 credits):
Course List
