Mickey Kosloski, Graduate Program Director
The PhD in Education, Workforce and Organizational Development concentration has three area of focus:
career and technical education
human resources training
technology education.
The PhD is delivered on campus and through ODUGlobal. All students must be on the Norfolk campus for two, two-week summer Institute sessions. The focus of the degree is to prepare post-secondary workforce development faculty, directors/supervisors of career and technical education, and directors of training departments in business, industry, and government.
The curriculum associated with Old Dominion University’s PhD in Education, occupational and technical studies concentration is intended to accomplish the following learning outcomes:
Individuals will apply knowledge, skills, behaviors, and dispositions in today's complex educational and business environments.
Every individual who completes this doctoral program will develop competencies for understanding and using research methods and statistics to make data-based driven decisions.
The Workforce and Organizational Development concentration offers courses that enable graduates to know and apply their knowledge in today’s complex educational, business, or industry environments and emerge as leaders in their chosen careers.
Note for students concerning the Doctor of Philosophy in Education - Workforce and Organizational Development concentration:  This program is not intended to lead to teacher certification or school leadership licensure. This program is available on-campus and online.
Admission
Entrance
All applicants to the Doctor of Philosophy degree, Workforce and Organizational Development concentration, must meet University, college and department requirements. In addition, all applicants must:
hold a master’s degree or equivalent related to this field;
complete the graduate application with necessary fee;
submit an essay statement of academic and professional goals with an emphasis on how the PhD in Education concentration in occupational and technical studies will contribute to the achievement of career goals;
submit three letters of reference from sources capable of commenting on readiness for advanced graduate study;
submit a resume that shows your educational and professional background;
submit academic transcripts from all undergraduate and graduate institutions previously attended or currently being attended;
if the applicant’s primary language is not English, submit a current score for the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) that meets the University’s current standard.
Applications for admission are on a rolling basis. Graduate assistantships are awarded in February annually.
Students may enroll in this program full- or part-time. The program faculty reviews all applicants as their application packages are completed. The following criteria are used for admittance:
graduate grade point average;
essay, 1500 word, describing how the PhD in OTS aligns with your professional goals; and
goodness of fit with program goals, faculty expertise, and supporting references.
Graduate assistantships and fellowships may be available. Contact the graduate program director for information.
Curriculum Requirements
Prerequisites
A master’s degree in an appropriate field related to this concentration is required for admission to the PhD program. Students who do not have equivalent coursework or appropriate educational experiences must complete the following prerequisite courses:
Course List
