Department website: http://www.odu.edu/stemps
Shana Pribesh, Chair
The department offers undergraduate courses FOUN 301 and FOUN 302 often taken as part of bachelor's programs in teacher preparation.  The department also offers an undergraduate course FOUN 101S , Learning to Learn, in the Human Behavior area of the University's General Education requirements. We also offer LIBS 110G Information Literacy for the Digital Age as part of ODU's General Education requirements.
At the graduate level, the department offers the Master of Science in Education degree with a concentration in Instructional Design & Technology; a Master of Library and Information Studies; and a PhD in Education with concentrations in Instructional Design & Technology, and Educational Psychology and Program Evaluation. Students can enter the Educational Psychology and Program Evaluation PhD concentration directly from their undergraduate program. Please refer to the Graduate Catalog for information on these programs.
Courses
Library Science (LIBS)
LIBS 110G Information Literacy for the Digital Age (3 Credit Hours)
Students require a comprehensive understanding of information literacy so they can become effective users of ideas and information and guide others in activities of knowledge use and creation. This course will provide an introduction to the process and methods of retrieving information using digital literacies. Students will learn to identify an information need, then locate, evaluate, and use appropriate resources while embedding the dispositions of academic integrity and ethical use. Topics include use of collaborative tools for development of information, including social media. The content focuses on implementing effective digital information literacy strategies situated in various content areas with the intent that these strategies can be incorporated into future professional and instructional practices.
Foundations of Education (FOUN)
FOUN 101S Learning to Learn (3 Credit Hours)
Learning is essential to human development and is a primary goal of formal schooling. Further, the nature of work is ever changing and the need to adapt to changing environments by learning new skills in new domains is essential for future success. In this educational psychology course, students will focus on the theoretical and empirical study of the science of learning. Students will gain insights into learning processes and achieve a deeper understanding of their own learning, including how to enhance their learning in various contexts.
FOUN 301 Learning and Development (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on educational psychology theory and research related to student learning and development. There will be an emphasis on how to incorporate research based principles in designing instruction, motivating students, and promoting a positive classroom climate based on how students learn and develop.
Prerequisites: ENGL 110C
FOUN 302 Assessment of Learning (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on exploring and implementing ethical assessment principles in a K-12 setting in order to ensure equity amongst a diverse population of students. Students will discuss and develop assessments for formative and summative purposes. They will analyze and interpret assessment data to measure and promote student success. State assessment programs will be discussed including social justice implications. The purpose of this course is to prepare future educators to analyze instructional situations, identify instructional targets, and determine appropriate assessment tools to monitor and support student learning.
