Info for Degree Completers
Let's Finish What You Started
You attended college in the past, and now you want to finish a bachelor's degree. ODUGlobal can help!
Our dedicated teams offer support from pre-admission to graduation and beyond.
We offer a free unofficial transfer evaluation before you apply to see how many credits can transfer towards an online bachelor's program at ODUGlobal. It doesn't matter how many classes you took, where you started, or how much time has passed—we'll check them all!
Throughout your bachelor's program, you'll have a dedicated student success director to help you stay on track to graduation.
Image
We Understand Adult Learners
We know that working adults need a flexible schedule to complete their education, without compromising on quality. As an ODUGlobal student, you'll be in good company:
77% of our students work 20+ hours per week on average
45% of our students are responsible for dependents
If your program requires an internship, we work with you to find a suitable opportunity where you currently live or work.
Over 97% of ODUGlobal students were Satisfied or Very Satisfied with their overall experiences with ODU. (Data as of May 2022)
Learn More About Learning Online through ODUGlobal
Career Development Services
When it's time to decide on career moves, ODU's Career Development Services is a great resource for interview practice, resume writing tips, and job searches.
After you graduate, you will have lifetime access to Career Development Services for ODU alumni.
Cost & Aid
Cost is one of the most important factors to consider when selecting a college degree online.
ODUGlobal has affordable tuition rates for both in-state and out-of-state online students. We want to help you maximize available resources so you can graduate without breaking the bank.
More on Cost & Aid
Scholarship Opportunities
At ODUGlobal, we offer a variety of scholarships to support and empower you in achieving your academic and career goals, making quality education accessible wherever you are.
ODU provided me the flexibility I needed to work full time while attending school.
Image
Jason Czelusniak Bachelor of Science in Engineering Technology
Cost factored first and foremost in my decision to pursue a degree through ODU. It was more affordable for me to attend ODU this way, and I will graduate with zero school debt.
Image
Raven M. Current Student, Modeling and Simulation Engineering
My advisor for the ODU BSN concurrent program was my lifesaver. She answered all my questions that I had, any concerns that came up. She was quick to respond to me.
Image
Taylor Jackson Bachelor of Science in Nursing
When I thought about going back to school, I was so intimidated by online classes. But my advisor was amazing. She was such a cheerleader.
Image
