MBA 600 Introduction to Statistics (1 Credit Hour)
Introductory course in statistics for admitted students in the MBA Program.
Prerequisites: Admission to the MBA Program or declared in the Business Analytics & Big Data graduate certificate
MBA 606 Mathematical Foundations for Business (1 Credit Hour)
This is an introductory course in the basic mathematical analyses used to model and better understand real-world scenarios found in business.  Primary emphasis is placed on developing and applying algebra, calculus, and other quantitative skills commonly used in business decision-making processes.
Prerequisites: admission to the MBA program
MBA 607 Ethical Decision Making in Business (1 Credit Hour)
The purpose of this course is to enable students to reason about the role of ethics in business administration in a complex, dynamic, global environment. Beginning with an examination of the purpose and existence of business, students will examine the responsibilities of management, and how business and ethics can be put together. Topics will include an introduction to the basic theoretical frameworks used in the analysis of ethical issues, such as right-based, consequentialist-based, and virtue-based reasoning, and conflicting interpretations of corporate responsibility. Application to real businesses and challenging case studies create opportunities for applying concepts.
Prerequisites: admission to the MBA program
MBA 621 Effective Business Writing (1 Credit Hour)
This course is designed to provide an understanding of communications in the management setting.  Objectives include improvement of writing skills by understanding major grammar and mechanics errors, understanding the importance of audience, tone and style in professional writing and learning effective letter and memo formats used in professional writing.
Prerequisites: Admission to MBA Program
MBA 638 Spreadsheet Modeling (1 Credit Hour)
This course introduces students to the use of spreadsheet modeling to analyze and make  business decisions. Course topics include managing workbook options and settings, managing and formatting data, creating advanced formulas and macros, and managing advanced charts and tables. The is a web-based course.
Prerequisites: Admission to MBA Program
MBA 646 Emotional Intelligence in the Workplace (1 Credit Hour)
Emotional intelligence is the capacity to recognize, understand, and manage emotional information. Learn how emotional intelligence impacts work outcomes and how individuals can develop and leverage emotional intelligence.
Prerequisites: Admission to MBA program
MBA 648 Building a Professional Brand (1 Credit Hour)
This course is designed for the seasoned professional. Students will be given useful tools to deploy in their career development toolkits. For example, students will establish individual professional goals and create personal strategic plans. Additionally, they will learn to effectively develop professional portfolios, negotiate job offers, develop interviewing strategies, establish work-life balance, manage professional expectations, manage stress as well as determine the how and when to transition from one job to another. MBA students should take this course as early as possible in their program of study for greatest benefit.
Prerequisites: Admission to MBA Program
MBA 695 Selected Topics for MBA Modules (1-3 Credit Hours)
The study of selected topics not offered on a regular basis.
Prerequisites: admission to the MBA program
MBA 697 Independent Study (1-3 Credit Hours)
Affords student the opportunity to undertake independent study under the direction of a faculty member.
Prerequisites: Admission to the MBA program, MBA 600 , MBA 601, MBA 602, MBA 603, and MBA 604, and permission of the instructor
MBA 698 Corporate Field Project (1-3 Credit Hours)
Students will work with regional firms and non-profits to propose solutions for a real problem facing the firm.
Prerequisites: admission to the MBA program
MBA 998 Graduate Credit (1 Credit Hour)
This is a pass/fail course MBA students may take to maintain active status. All graduate students are required to be registered for at least one graduate credit hour in their semester of graduation.
Search catalog
