Tailored Learning Solutions for Your Workforce
Image
ODUGlobal provides your organization with direct access to valuable university resources, driving workforce development and
innovation.
Our team collaborates with you to create partnerships that propel your organization forward, meeting your unique goals
and talent needs.
Contact Us
Complete the form below and a member from our Corporate Partnerships Department will contact you to discuss partnership opportunities. If you are a working adult, we have many opportunities for you to explore. Visit our page >
ODUGlobal partners with forward-thinking organizations to provide career-relevant, accredited learning solutions that foster employee growth.
Empower Your Organization
Our tailored approach can help your organization:
Build a direct pathway for employees to maximize education benefits
Address critical operational needs and close talent gaps
Boost performance, productivity, and recruitment
Enhance employee satisfaction and retention through education
Develop Your Team
By partnering with ODUGlobal, you can rely on us to provide:
A customized professional development plan designed for your organization’s specific needs
Streamlined billing options, including direct billing and deferred payment for employees
Transparent pricing with no hidden fees and minimal administrative requirements
A personalized webpage where your employees can easily access program details and FAQs
Coordinated marketing and communication support, available both on-site and online
LinkedIn says, “94% of employees would stay longer at an organization if it invested in their learning.”
Why Partner with ODUGlobal?
Empower your workforce with tuition benefits from a top-tier R1 university with 35+ years of online education expertise.
High Quality, Accessible Education
Our students receive the same level of support as those on campus, ensuring they succeed from enrollment through graduation.
Affordable, Competitive Tuition
Maximize your organization’s tuition assistance benefits to reduce the cost of degrees and certificates for your employees.
Comprehensive Support Services
Our 360-degree support system provides personalized coaching, academic advising, and technical assistance to ensure employee success.
Career-Relevant Programs
With over 100 online degrees, certificates , and non-degree options , we align our offerings with your workforce development goals.
Award-Winning Faculty
As an R1 Research institution, our nationally recognized instructors understand the needs of working adults and guide them toward successful completion.
Personalized Concierge Service
Your dedicated ODUGlobal Navigator ensures seamless alignment between your organization’s education benefits and your employees’ professional growth.
"We would love to afford every one of our employees the opportunity to achieve a bachelor’s degree, and with Old Dominion’s help we can do that together."
Image
Beth Roberts Geico Director of Human Resources for Virginia, North Carolina, and Tennessee
By the Numbers
35 Years of Distance Education Leadership
Leveraging decades of expertise to provide cutting-edge learning solutions for working professionals.
Nearly 7,000 Online Students
A thriving online community that demonstrates the reach and impact of ODUGlobal’s education programs.
97% Overall Satisfaction Rate
Our students report high satisfaction with their experience, ensuring your employees receive top-tier education and support.
Focused On Career Development
At ODUGlobal, we attract driven, motivated employees who are ready to transform their careers through education, fostering the skills and confidence they need to succeed in today’s ever-evolving workforce.
Career-Focused Academic Advising
We provide tailored advising to ensure your employees’ educational paths align with their career growth.
Connected, Expert Faculty
Our award-winning faculty understands the needs of working professionals and are committed to helping them succeed.
Image
Next Steps
Can we help you advance your organization?
We partner with employers to offer career-aligned, affordable education solutions that empower your workforce without the burden of debt.
Quality, Career-Relevant Curriculum
Our programs are tailored to the specific needs of your organization and the goals of your individual employees.
Achieve Your Organizational Goals by Empowering Your Workforce
Build a future-ready team with a customized education program that supports both your organization's objectives and your employees’ success.
Connect With Us
