DNTH 395 Topics in Dental Hygiene Practice (1-6 Credit Hours)
Selected topics in dental hygiene vary by semester. (offered fall, spring, summer)
Prerequisites: permission of the instructor
DNTH 397 Independent Study in Dental Hygiene (1-6 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic selected under direction of a faculty member.  (offered fall, spring, summer)
Prerequisites: permission of the instructor
DNTH 410 Dental Hygiene Theory IV (3 Credit Hours)
Study of the psychosocial, physical and oral characteristics of patients with special needs.  Emphasis is on the care and clinical management of the following patients:  cognitively, developmentally and physically challenged, aged, pregnant, epileptic, diabetic, cancer, AIDS, chemically dependent and the blind and deaf. (offered fall)
Prerequisites: DNTH 305 , DNTH 306 , and DNTH 316
DNTH 411 Dental Hygiene Services IV (6 Credit Hours)
Clinical experience in the on-campus supervised clinic.  Continued development of clinical proficiency and ethical, evidence-based decision making in providing comprehensive preventive and therapeutic oral health services.  Emphasis is on intra/interprofessional clinical application and development of competencies for the treatment of diverse, special needs and periodontally involved patients using the dental hygiene process of care.  (offered fall)
Corequisites: DNTH 410
DNTH 412W/512 Perspectives on Dental Hygiene Practice (3 Credit Hours)
Course is designed for the licensed dental hygienist who seeks to maintain an awareness of changing trends, perspectives, evidence-based interventions and technologies in dental hygiene, health, and society that influence the dental hygiene process of care. This is a writing intensive course. (Offered summer)
Prerequisites: grade of C or better in ENGL 110C and ENGl 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C and admission into the dental hygiene program
DNTH 413 Community Oral Health Planning (3 Credit Hours)
Introduction to the principles of dental public health, health literacy, oral epidemiology, evidenced-based prevention and control of oral disease on a population basis.  Emphasis is on program assessment, planning, implementation, and evaluation for the development of community-based dental programs.  This course prepares students for the role of oral health educator, client advocate and resource person in community settings.  (offered fall)
Prerequisites: DNTH 305 , DNTH 306 or permission of the instructor
DNTH 414/514 Educational Concepts for the Health Professional I (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to explore various educational concepts, principles and methods of teaching for adults. Students will learn to present educational information to a diverse client population, in a variety of settings, in an ethical and professional manner. Topics include, but are not limited to, objectives, planning, implementation and evaluation of instruction; instructional strategies; delivery models; presentation skills; and techniques for communicating health information.
Prerequisites: admission to the dental hygiene program
DNTH 415/515 Research Methods in the Health Sciences (3 Credit Hours)
Designed to develop skills in scientific methods, evidence based decision making and critical analysis of research findings. Emphasis on types of research, levels of evidence, problem selection and hypothesis writing, research planning and design, data collection and measuring techniques, analysis and interpretation of data, research proposal writing and computer application.  A written research proposal is required for graduate credit.(offered fall)
Prerequisites: STAT 130M
DNTH 416/516 Administrative Leadership and Professional Development (3 Credit Hours)
A study of current trends that influence the profession of dental hygiene including oral health care delivery, manpower, financing mechanisms, quality improvement, third party payers, professional associations,  regulatory agencies and legislation.  Emphasis is on ethical, political, and legal issues as they relate to the dental hygiene profession. offered spring)
Prerequisites: Admission to the dental hygiene program
DNTH 417W Dental Hygiene Theory V (3 Credit Hours)
Designed to transition students into diverse employment settings nationally and globally.  Emphasis is on written communication skills, practice management, working in multicultural settings, selecting an employment setting, values clarification, resume writing, interview techniques, networking, ethical dilemmas and cross-cultural competencies necessary for contemporary healthcare environments.  Various national and international career opportunities are explored. This is a writing intensive course.
Corequisites: DNTH 418
DNTH 418 Dental Hygiene Services V (6 Credit Hours)
Clinical experience in the on-campus supervised clinic.  Continued development of proficiency and ethical, evidence-based decision making in providing comprehensive preventive and therapeutic oral health services within the dental hygiene process of care.  Emphasis is on intra/interprofessional development of competencies for the treatment of periodontally involved, special needs and diverse patients. (offered spring)
Corequisites: DNTH 417W
DNTH 419 Community Oral Health Practice (3 Credit Hours)
Interprofessional service-learning and internship experiences designed to prepare students to function as oral health practitioners, educators, client advocates and resource persons in community health settings. Emphasis is on providing evidenced-based educational, preventive, and therapeutic services for vulnerable and underserved populations including low-income, geriatric, pediatric, institutionalized, and cognitively, developmentally, and physically challenged individuals. Design and delivery of a poster session is required. (offered spring; varies days and times)
Prerequisites: DNTH 413
DNTH 440T/540 Telehealthcare Technology (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the concept, global impact, and trends in telehealthcare technology on the client/patient, multidisciplinary practitioners, and various healthcare systems.  Emphasis is on effective evidence-based decision making to reduce errors in patient care, promote care in remote or underserved geographical areas, and the ability to retrieve and evaluate healthcare information that improves access to quality, cost effective health care. (Offered spring)
Prerequisites: sophomore standing and permission of the instructor
DNTH 450 International Dental Hygiene (1-3 Credit Hours)
International locations are determined by the School of Dental Hygiene in conjunction with the Office of Study Abroad.  Program participation requires approval from the School of Dental Hygiene and the Office of Study Abroad.  Provides an on-location international experience in oral care delivery, practice and regulation, and dental hygiene education.  Students will be required to give presentations, review the dental care delivery system, and explore how the cultural beliefs and practices affect oral health, dental care seeking behaviors, and the oral health status of the population.  Orientations will be conducted prior to travel.
Prerequisites: DNTH 316
DNTH 451 Ergonomics and Exercises for Static Posture Occupations (1 Credit Hour)
This active participation course is designed for persons who work in static posture professions (e.g., dental hygienists, laboratory and computer office personnel) and who seek to practice ergonomic body mechanics and exercise therapies to prevent musculoskeletal disorders and repetitive strain injuries. Topics include biomechanics, creating an ergonomically sound work space, alternative sitting and standing techniques during clinical care, types of disorders and injuries, risk management, comprehension and demonstration of full body exercises with emphasis on core strength training, and self-monitoring. (offered online summer session only)
Prerequisites: permission of instructor
DNTH 495 Topics in Dental Hygiene (1-3 Credit Hours)
Seminars on selected topics in dental hygiene. Topics vary by semester.  (offered fall, spring, summer)
Prerequisites: permission of the instructor
DNTH 497/597 Independent Study in Dental Hygiene (1-6 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic selected under direction of a faculty member.  (Offered fall, spring, summer)
Prerequisites: permission of instructor
DNTH 498 Directed Research in Dental Hygiene (1-6 Credit Hours)
Supervised research on a specific problem in dental hygiene.  Regular meetings with faculty and a written/oral report are required.
Prerequisites: Permission of instructor
DNTH 512 Perspectives on Dental Hygiene Practice (3 Credit Hours)
Course is designed for the licensed dental hygienist who seeks to maintain an awareness of changing trends, perspectives, evidence-based interventions and technologies in dental hygiene, health, and society that influence the dental hygiene process of care.  (Offered summer.)
Prerequisites: Admission into the dental hygiene program
DNTH 514 Educational Concepts for the Health Professional I (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to explore various educational concepts, principles and methods of teaching for adults. Students will learn to present educational information to a diverse client population, in a variety of settings, in an ethical and professional manner. Topics include, but are not limited to, objectives, planning, implementation and evaluation of instruction; instructional strategies; delivery models; presentation skills; and techniques for communicating health information. (offered fall)
Prerequisites: Admission to the dental hygiene program
DNTH 515 Research Methods in the Health Sciences (3 Credit Hours)
Designed to develop skills in scientific methods, evidence based decision making, levels of evidence, and critical analysis of research findings. Emphasis on types of research, problem selection and hypothesis writing, research planning and design, data collection and measuring techniques, analysis and interpretation of data, research proposal writing and computer application.  A written research proposal is required for graduate credit. (offered fall)
DNTH 516 Administrative Leadership and Professional Development (3 Credit Hours)
A study of current trends that influence the profession of dental hygiene including oral health care delivery, manpower, financing mechanisms, quality improvement, third party payers, professional associations,  regulatory agencies and legislation.  Emphasis is on ethical, political, and legal issues as they relate to the dental hygiene profession. (offered spring)
Prerequisites: Admission to the dental hygiene program
DNTH 540 Telehealthcare Technology (3 Credit Hours)
This course will examine the concept, global impact, and trends in telehealthcare technology on the client/patient, multidisciplinary practitioners, and various healthcare systems.  Emphasis is on effective evidence-based decision making to reduce errors in patient care, promote care in remote or underserved geographical areas, and the ability to retrieve and evaluate healthcare information that improves access to quality, cost effective health care. (Offered spring)
Prerequisites: permission of the instructor
DNTH 597 Independent Study in Dental Hygiene (1-6 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic selected under direction of a faculty member. (Offered fall, spring, summer)
Prerequisites: permission of instructor
DNTH 604 Clinical Administration and Teaching (3 Credit Hours)
The application of principles and theories of education and management to dental hygiene clinical education.  Emphasis is on planning, implementing and evaluating clinical teaching, assessment of clinical competence, management of human and physical resources, and regulations affecting clinical education. This course is offered only during fall semester.
Corequisites: DNTH 669
DNTH 611 Modeling and Simulation Applications in Healthcare (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the principles and innovative applications for modeling and simulation in healthcare practice, research, education, and administration with emphasis on emerging issues and trends in technology.  Topics include the selection and implementation of simulation technology in conceptual epidemiology public and environmental health, dental hygiene, dentistry, nursing, medicine, laboratory sciences, healthcare management and health information. (offered summer)
DNTH 621 Aging in the 21st Century (3 Credit Hours)
This course will expose the inter-professional student to current and future challenges of aging in our society. Topics will include Healthy People 2020 objectives, health promotion and disease prevention for the aging, sociocultural issues, and theories on behavior and motivation. Common systemic and oral health conditions of the aging adult will be identified. Critical analysis of the current health environment will provide a format for discussion and identification of strategies for health promotion and disease control for the aging. Measures for promoting and maintaining oral health and overall health of the aging population will be explored, with attention to current research from the literature. This course is offered during summer semesters only.
DNTH 650 Advanced International Dental Hygiene (3-9 Credit Hours)
Faculty-led experiences offer unique opportunities for students to travel abroad, develop cross cultural competence, experience global health challenges, and engage in projects that advance oral health worldwide.
Prerequisites: DNTH 514
DNTH 660 Educational Concepts for the Health Professional II (3 Credit Hours)
Explores instructional strategies and their application to contemporary health professional roles.  Emphasis is on individuals as health care specialists in business and industry; professional, private and public organizations; higher education; and the health care industry.  Topics include implementation and evaluation of instruction, roles and responsibilities of faculty within an accredited program affected by state and national standards, and ethical and career related issues and trends.  Students are provided with practical experience in traditional and distance education instructional methods. (offered spring)
Prerequisites: DNTH 514 or permission of the instructor
DNTH 663 Interprofessional Health Promotion (3 Credit Hours)
Course brings together students from various health disciplines to learn each other's roles and collaborate as a team using technology to promote health and prevent disease.  Focus will be on optimizing health efforts and outcomes through an interprofessional approach that is guided by the research evidence and current technologies. Topics include Healthy People 2020 objectives, age, specific clinical guidelines for health promotion and illness prevention, theories on behavior and motivation, sociocultural issues, telehealth care, and various health problems.  Evidence-based measures used by the team for promoting and maintaining health throughout the lifespan are emphasized. (spring only)
DNTH 668 Internship (3-9 Credit Hours)
Experience-based learning activities designed to develop a role of competence related to the individual’s area of specialization while working under the supervision of a faculty member or host supervisor within an educational, health care, research, or corporate health setting.  A clinical dental hygiene internship is prerequisite to DNTH 669 .  Available for pass/fail grade only.  (offered fall, spring, summer as available)
Prerequisites: DNTH 514 , DNTH 515 , DNTH 604 or permission of the instructor
DNTH 669 Clinical Administration & Teaching Practicum (1 Credit Hour)
This practicum course is for students to apply principles and theories of education and management to dental hygiene clinical education. Emphasis is on planning, implementing, and evaluating clinical teaching, assessment of clinical competence, management of human and physical resources, and regulations affecting clinical education. This course is only offered during fall semester.
DNTH 695 Topics in Dental Hygiene (1-6 Credit Hours)
Advanced seminars on selected topics in dental hygiene.  Topics vary by semester.  (offered fall, spring, summer)
DNTH 697 Independent Study-Dental Hygiene (1-6 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic selected under direction of a faculty member.  (offered fall, spring, summer)
Prerequisites: Graduate Program Director permission required
DNTH 698 Research (3 Credit Hours)
An original thesis research project executed with the major advisor and thesis committee supervising the student's research project.  A written research proposal must be submitted and approved prior to beginning the project.  Required for students in the thesis option. Available as pass/fail grade only. (offered fall, spring, summer).
Prerequisites: DNTH 515 ; FOUN 722 or HLSC 746 or CHP 640 or equivalent statistics course approved by the graduate program director
DNTH 699 Thesis (3 Credit Hours)
Devoted to research, writing of the thesis, and scheduled conferences with the candidate's advisor and thesis committee.  Students must submit an acceptable written thesis demonstrating knowledge of problem selection, data classification, analysis and interpretation and defend it.  Available as pass/fail grade only.  (offered fall, spring, summer)
Prerequisites: DNTH 698
DNTH 998 Master's Graduate Credit (1 Credit Hour)
This course is a pass/fail course for master's students in their final semester. It may be taken to fulfill the registration requirement necessary for graduation.  All master's students are required to be registered for at least one graduate credit hour in the semester of their graduation.
Search catalog
