Writing and Research
ODU Writing Center
The Writing Center provides individual tutoring sessions to undergraduate and graduate students. They can help you learn how to proofread your own work, get started on writing projects, and develop a writing process for a paper. Schedule a virtual appointment by calling 757-683-4013 -- be sure to tell them you're an online student so they schedule an online session.
ODU Libraries
As an online student, you can check out books from ODU libraries and partner libraries that are connected through InterLibrary Loan , and the materials will be mailed right to your door. *During the COVID-19 response, physical material loans may be temporarily suspended.
ODU's libraries have a guide to online resources for distance learners . This guide will help you:
Ask-a-Librarian for quick questions.
Learn how to use the libraries' search tool, Monarch OneSearch .
Get in-depth assistance with library research, whether you're just beginning research for a term paper or in the middle of a thesis. Schedule a Research Consultation .
Explore the research process on your own through "Information Literacy" tutorials.
Responsible Conduct of Research Training
ODU trains all graduate students in the fundamentals of Responsible Conduct of Research. You must complete this training before you have completed 12 credit hours at ODU. Click here to get started .
Student Outreach and Support (S.O.S.)
S.O.S. provides services to students who experience administrative, academic, or personal road blocks to their success at ODU. Contact S.O.S. if you need help with:
an unexpected life event that interferes with your ability to complete your classes
finding the right person or department who can help with a need
concerns that have not been resolved by another office
confusion or questions about University policies
a safe space to discuss your concerns
Start here to learn more .
Student Complaint Resolution
We're committed to our students and to implementing our academic policies and procedures in a consistent and nondiscriminatory manner. We want to know if you have any complaints or concerns regarding grades, tuition, discrimination, or any other topic that you feel should be addressed. Online and on-campus students are all welcome to voice concerns in either a formal or informal manner.
Start here to learn more about University policies, procedures, resources, and complaint options.
Old Dominion University
Gornto Hall, Norfolk, VA 23529
Footer
