Fundamentals of Human Growth and Development: Birth through Adolescence
3
Foundations of Special Education: Legal Aspects and Characteristics
3
29
Add-on Endorsements
Add-on endorsements are available in algebra I, English as a second language, journalism, and most other grade 6-12 areas. For information, please contact the Office of Clinical Experiences, website at https://www.odu.edu/oce.
Courses
Foundations of Education (FOUN)
FOUN 101S Learning to Learn (3 Credit Hours)
Learning is essential to human development and is a primary goal of formal schooling. Further, the nature of work is ever changing and the need to adapt to changing environments by learning new skills in new domains is essential for future success. In this educational psychology course, students will focus on the theoretical and empirical study of the science of learning. Students will gain insights into learning processes and achieve a deeper understanding of their own learning, including how to enhance their learning in various contexts.
FOUN 301 Learning and Development (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on educational psychology theory and research related to student learning and development. There will be an emphasis on how to incorporate research based principles in designing instruction, motivating students, and promoting a positive classroom climate based on how students learn and develop.
Prerequisites: ENGL 110C
FOUN 302 Assessment of Learning (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on exploring and implementing ethical assessment principles in a K-12 setting in order to ensure equity amongst a diverse population of students. Students will discuss and develop assessments for formative and summative purposes. They will analyze and interpret assessment data to measure and promote student success. State assessment programs will be discussed including social justice implications. The purpose of this course is to prepare future educators to analyze instructional situations, identify instructional targets, and determine appropriate assessment tools to monitor and support student learning.
Teaching and Learning-Education (TLED)
TLED 195 Topics in Education (1-3 Credit Hours)
Explores contemporary problems and trends in education. Emphasis is placed upon topics related to curriculum, instructional strategies, and evaluation.
TLED 301 Foundations and Introduction to Assessment of Education (3 Credit Hours)
Introduces the historical, philosophical, and sociological foundations and contemporary issues of American public education.  Includes the use and analysis of assessment data and the construction and interpretation of assessments.  Students are expected independently to register for and take the Praxis Core examination while enrolled in this course.  Students in PreK-6 programs will complete a 15 hour observation/participation experience in a primary setting (preK-3) and a 15 hour observation/participation experience in an upper elementary (4-6) setting; students in 6-12 or 6-8 programs will complete a 30 hour observation/participation experience in an appropriate 6-12 setting.
Prerequisites: sophomore standing
TLED 320 Perspectives on the Young Child and the Family (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the familial lives of young children (Birth through Grade 3) and supports understandings of working with parents and families in early childhood settings. Family systems theory provides the basis for study and guides understandings of contemporary family structures. The stages of the family life cycle are explored; principles of healthy family functioning are emphasized to promote healthy growth for children.
Prerequisites: FOUN 301 and TLED 301
TLED 326 Socio-Cultural Perspectives in Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course will utilize a framework of sociocultural theory situated within culturally sustaining pedagogical practices to explore issues related to race, ethnicity, class, gender, sexuality, religion, and language use. Students will learn to create an educational environment that values diversity and employs research-based strategies. The course also examines and evaluates multicultural and global literature that explores issues of diversity.
Prerequisites: ENGL 110C
TLED 328 Observation and Assessment in Early Childhood (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the observation/assessment techniques used in early childhood classrooms as part of a coordinated approach to implement a reflective, high quality early childhood classroom. The purpose of this course is to introduce and support students’ development of skills related to the observation and interpretation of children’s daily activities and behaviors. This course includes a 20-hour practicum.
Prerequisites: TLED 320
TLED 330 The Arts in Early Childhood and Elementary Education (3 Credit Hours)
An exploration of principles, methods, and materials for teaching the arts to young children. Emphasis is on making, interpreting, and designing meaningful art experiences for young children pre-K-grade 3. Students will be asked to participate in activities associated with making and viewing art, as well as design comprehensive learning experiences that encourage children to make and respond to art through conversation, storytelling, play, dramatics, movement, music, and art making.
Prerequisites: TLED 301
TLED 337 Literature for Young Children (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide students with approaches for introducing young children to literature and reading. The course will examine a variety of children's literature genres and explore relationships between language, theory, politics, ideology and print material. Students will design activities that extend children’s literacy experiences, reading enjoyment, writing capabilities, and incorporate cultural and linguistic diversity in social studies, math, science, and the arts.
Prerequisites: TLED 301
TLED 338 Integrated Methods & Curriculum in Early Childhood Ed: Birth-Pre-K (4 Credit Hours)
This course examines the development of curriculum and instructional practices for children in infant, toddler, and preschool settings. The course will focus on the principles and methods of understanding and working with the young child across the content areas of early mathematics, science, literacy, social studies, and the arts. Course includes a 40 hour practicum placement in an early care classroom.
Prerequisites: TLED 330
TLED 360 Classroom Management and Discipline (2 Credit Hours)
Examines theories, research, and practices involved in classroom management, motivation, and discipline.  Explores techniques for organizing and arranging classroom environments that are most conducive to learning.
Prerequisites: TLED 301 or MUSC 300 with a C- or higher
TLED 395 Topics in Education (1-3 Credit Hours)
Explores contemporary problems and trends in education.  Emphasis is placed upon topics related to curriculum, instructional strategies, and evaluation.
Prerequisites: junior standing
TLED 408 Reading and Writing in Content Areas (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines and promotes literacy development in all content areas, including the development and use of disciplinary comprehension and writing/production skills. Students will explore and consider a repertoire of questioning strategies, and strategies in literal, interpretive, critical, analytical, and evaluative comprehension across the curriculum, grades 6-12.
Prerequisites: a grade of C- or higher in TLED 430W and SPED 313 or a grade of C- or higher in one of the following: SEPS 297 , MUSC 300 , TLED 301 , STEM 351 , MUSC 335T , ARTS 279 , HPE 200 , HPE 317 , SPED 400 , and TLED 474
TLED 426 Introduction to Literacy, Linguistics and Practice in the Classroom (3 Credit Hours)
This course will provide students with an overview of the foundations of theory and best practices in literacy instruction. Emphasis is placed on Science of Reading (SOR), including phonemic awareness, phonics, developing decoding foundational skills, vocabulary, fluency, and comprehension. This course adopts an approach rooted in culturally sustaining pedagogy, aiming to create a learning environment that promotes equity and engagement for all learners. The course will support student's professional preparation as a teacher who promotes the success of all students through the implementation of excellent literacy instruction.
Prerequisites: FOUN 301
TLED 430W PK-12 Instructional Technology (3 Credit Hours)
Classroom technology and learning strategies are explored through authentic technology and writing activities. This writing intensive (W) course uses contemporary productivity tools and Internet resources to develop and evaluate progressive instructional techniques and K-12 standards-based curriculum materials, which have changed as a result of the development and integration of technology in the classroom.
Prerequisites: ENGL 110C and ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C with a grade of C or better and TLED 301 or HPE 200 or TLED 474 or SPED 400
TLED 432/532 Developing Instructional Strategies PreK-6: Language Arts (3 Credit Hours)
Following a theory into practice philosophy, students explore, develop, and use instructional strategies, materials, technologies, and activities to promote children's development of attitudes, behaviors, and concepts in language arts in grades PreK-6 in support of NCTE national instructional standards and the Virginia Standards of Learning.
Pre- or corequisite: TLED 426
TLED 435/535 Developing Instructional Strategies PreK-6: Social Studies (3 Credit Hours)
Following a theory into practice philosophy, students explore, develop, and use instructional strategies, materials, technologies, and activities to promote children's development of attitudes, behaviors, and concepts in social studies in grades PreK-6 in support of NCSS national instructional standards and the Virginia Standards of Learning.
Corequisites: TLED 432
TLED 451/551 Developing Instructional Strategies for Teaching in the Middle/High School: English (3 Credit Hours)
Following a theory/research-into-practice philosophy, students explore, develop, and use instructional strategies, materials, technologies, and activities to promote the development of attitudes, behaviors, and concepts in English, grades 6-12, informed by national instructional standards and the Virginia Standards of Learning; 35 hours of teaching practicum required.
Prerequisites: TLED 301 or TLED 430W or SPED 313 , a criminal background check, acceptance into teacher education, no grade less than C- in content area and professional education core, minimum major and overall GPA of at least 2.75
Corequisites: TLED 483
TLED 452/552 Developing Instructional Strategies for Teaching in Middle/High School: Math and Science (3 Credit Hours)
This science and mathematics course will provide methods for teaching diverse learners through culturally sustaining pedagogy, inquiry-oriented, and problem solving strategies using technology and engineering design principles. Students in this course take a required practicum (35 hours) in a secondary science or mathematics classroom to complete assigned content-focused activities.
Corequisites: TLED 483
TLED 455/555 Developing Instructional Strategies for Teaching in the Middle/High School: Social Studies (3 Credit Hours)
Following a theory/research-into-practice philosophy, students explore, develop, and use instructional strategies, materials, technologies, and activities to promote the development of attitudes, behaviors, and concepts in social studies, grades 6-12, informed by national instructional standards and the Virginia Standards of Learning; 35 hours of teaching practicum required.
Prerequisites: TLED 301 , TLED 430W , SPED 313 , a criminal background check, acceptance into teacher education, no grade less than C- in content area and professional education core, minimum major and overall GPA of at least 2.75
Corequisites: TLED 483
TLED 468/568 Language Acquisition and Reading for Students with Diverse Learning Needs (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides an overview of normal language development and language disorders which impact the acquisition of language based curriculum skills such as listening, speaking, reading, and written expression.  Emphasis is on instructional techniques to assist students with diverse learning needs to achieve reading and comprehension skills.  Effective reading strategies and curricula for individuals with disabilities will also be reviewed.
Prerequisites: junior standing
TLED 474/574 Foundations and Contemporary Issues in Early Childhood Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course addresses current issues related to children and families in early childhood settings.  Contemporary research on pedagogical and formative assessment practices related to the education of young children will be discussed through critical exploration. This course will also have an associated 40 hour practicum (20 hours in an infant or toddler classroom and 20 hours in a preschool age classroom).
Prerequisites: Instructor approval required
TLED 478/578 Integrating Instruction Across the Curriculum PreK-6 (3 Credit Hours)
Following a theory into practice philosophy and building on the instructional strategies for specific disciplines, students explore, develop, and use advanced instructional materials, technologies, and activities to promote interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary instruction across the curriculum in grades PreK-6 in support of national standards and the Virginia Standards of Learning. The field experience component (40 hours) includes participation in prek-3 and 4th-6th grade classrooms in an accredited public or non-public school, per program requirement.
Prerequisites: Admission to an approved teacher education program and any two of the following courses: TLED 432 , TLED 435 , STEM 433 , or STEM 434
TLED 479/579 Classroom Management and Practice PreK-3; PreK-6 (3 Credit Hours)
Course prepares prospective PreK-3 and PreK-6 teachers to provide instruction and management addressing the intellectual, physical, emotional and social needs of PreK-6 learners founded in empirically based practice.  The field based component (70 hours) includes participation in PreK-3 and 4th-6th grade classrooms in an accredited public or non-public school.  Students in the Prek-3 program are required to complete 35 hours in the Children's Learning and Research Center. Attendance at seminars and debriefing sessions is required.
Prerequisites: Admission to an approved teacher education program and any two of the following courses: TLED 432 , TLED 435 , STEM 433 , or STEM 434
TLED 480/580 Multicultural Young Adult Literature in Schools (3 Credit Hours)
This course will explore the reading and teaching of diverse young adult literature. Topics addressed include ideas about adolescents and their learning practices; characteristics of young adult literature and literary criticism; analysis of texts from a range of young adult genres; methods for teaching young adult literature; and lesson and unit design.
Prerequisites: Junior standing
TLED 483/583 Seminar in Teacher Education (1 Credit Hour)
Explores issues, problems, concerns, and processes related to teaching and to entering the profession of teaching.  Passing scores on Elementary Education Multiple Subjects Assessment in licensure content area, passing scores on the Virginia Communication and Literacy Assessment (VCLA), and where appropriate passing scores on  Reading for Virginia Educators are required to pass this course.
Prerequisites: Admission to an approved teacher education program and Senior standing
TLED 485 Teacher Candidate Internship (12 Credit Hours)
Internship in school.  Available for pass/fail grading only.
Prerequisites: completion of all program requirements and admission into an approved program in teacher education
TLED 486/586 Student Teaching for Special Endorsement (3-6 Credit Hours)
Internship in school.  Available for pass/fail grading only.
Prerequisites: Collegiate Professional Certificate and/or completion of an approved program in teacher education, passing scores on Praxis Core examination or equivalent SAT or ACT scores as established by VA Board of Education, passing scores on the appropriate Praxis II content examination, passing score on the Virginia Communication and Literacy Assessment, departmental approval, permission of the director of teacher education services, meet grade requirement in the specific content area and professional education core, minimum major and overall GPA of at least 2.75, and a criminal background check
TLED 487 Teacher Candidate Internship for Early Childhood Education (12 Credit Hours)
Field-based 14-week experiences in the early childhood setting that include a minimum of 150 hours of direct instruction. The teacher candidate internship is the culminating experience of all teacher education programs. This experience is a crucial part of a teacher candidate’s preparation to becoming a professional educator.
Prerequisites: TLED 493 and admission to an approved teacher education program
TLED 488 Teacher Candidate Internship - Elementary Education (12 Credit Hours)
Five days per week for 14 weeks. Available for pass/fail grading only. Provides practice in teaching in grades PK-6 and in analyzing teaching approaches and behaviors. Examines instructional problems and concerns.
Prerequisites: TLED 478 and TLED 479 ; completion of an approved program in teacher education PreK-6; passing scores on the appropriate PRAXIS multiple subject assessment content examination, Reading for Virginia Educators examination, and the Virginia Communication and Literacy Assessment; no grade less than C- in content area and professional education core; and minimum major and overall GPA of at least 2.75
TLED 490 The Child and the Family: PreK-3 (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the familial lives of young children (Birth through Grade 3) and supports understandings of working with parents and families in early childhood. Family systems theory provides the basis for study and guides understandings of contemporary family structures. The stages of the family life cycle are explored; principles of healthy family functioning are emphasized to promote healthy growth for children.
Prerequisites: instructor approval required
TLED 492 Integrating Instruction: Mathematics and Science Across the Early Childhood Curriculum (3 Credit Hours)
This course emphasizes the development of young children's problem solving skills, strategies, and abilities and the promotion of active science and math explorations within early childhood classrooms. Multiple perspectives and approaches to planning, teaching, and assessing science and mathematics in the early childhood classroom are explored and practiced. This course includes a 40 hour practicum experience in an early childhood classroom.
Prerequisites: MATH 302 , TLED 328 , and admission to an approved teacher education program
TLED 493 Integrating Literacy and Social Studies Across the PreK - 3 Curriculum (3 Credit Hours)
This course emphasizes the development of young children's multiple literacies and the promotion of active literacy and social studies explorations within early childhood classrooms.  Multiple perspectives and approaches to planning, teaching, and assessing literacy and social studies in the early childhood classroom are explored and practiced. This course includes a 40 hour practicum experience in an early childhood classroom.
Pre- or corequisite: TLED 426
TLED 495/595 Topics in Education (1-4 Credit Hours)
Explores contemporary problems and trends in education.  Emphasis is placed upon topics related to curriculum, instructional strategies, and evaluation.
Prerequisites: junior or graduate standing
TLED 496/596 Topics in Education (1-3 Credit Hours)
Cannot be applied to a Master of Science in Education degree in the Department of Teaching and Learning.  Explores contemporary problems and trends in education.  Emphasis is placed upon topics related to curriculum, instructional strategies, and evaluation.
Prerequisites: junior or graduate standing
TLED 497/597 Independent Study (1-3 Credit Hours)
Hours to be arranged. Allows the student to engage in independent study of issues and trends in education. Emphasis is placed upon topics related to curriculum, instructional strategies, and evaluation.
Prerequisites: junior standing
