No Grade Reported
The use of plus and minus grades is at the discretion of the instructor.
The grade point average is calculated by dividing the accumulated number of grade points earned by the accumulated number of credit hours attempted. Grades of F and WF and repeats are included, but official withdrawals, audits, and grades on noncredit courses and pass/fail degree courses are not included.  All undergraduate-level courses, including courses taken as a non-degree seeking student and courses taken after graduation, will be included in calculating the undergraduate cumulative grade point average. All graduate-level courses, including courses taken as a non-degree seeking student and courses taken after graduation, will be included in calculating the graduate cumulative grade point average.
For completion of an undergraduate degree or certificate, a student must have a minimum cumulative grade point average of C (grade point average of 2.00) in all courses taken and a grade point average of at least 2.00 in the major except for those degree programs or certificate programs requiring grade point averages above a 2.00.
A minimum cumulative grade point average of 3.00 is required for the award of a graduate degree or certificate.
Grades in courses accepted for transfer credit are not counted in the computation of grade point averages.
Grades are available to students through the secure website. Grades are mailed to students only if a written request is submitted to the Office of the University Registrar.
WF and W Grades. The grades of WF and W indicate withdrawal from a course only under those conditions described in the sections entitled Class Schedule Change Procedure and Grading Policy for Withdrawal From Classes.
Incomplete Grades. A grade of I indicates assigned work yet to be completed in a given course or absence from the final examination and is assigned only upon instructor approval of a student request. The I grade may be awarded only in exceptional circumstances beyond the student’s control, such as illness, and only after 80% of the time allocated for the course has elapsed and substantial progress has been made toward completion of course requirements with the exception of courses that do not fit within the traditional semester calendar.
In cases of exceptional circumstances beyond the student’s control, it is the responsibility of the student to approach the instructor to request an I grade and to provide documentation, including a written statement of when the work will be completed, to support the request. The authority to award an I grade rests with the instructor whose decision is final. Students whose requests for I grades are approved must not re-register for the class until the I grade has been resolved. The I grade becomes an F if not removed when grades are due the following term according to the following schedule: I grades from the fall semester become F’s if not removed by the day grades are due for the spring semester; I grades from the spring semester and the summer session become F’s if not removed by the day grades are due for the fall semester.
When there is an existing incomplete grade and the instructor who assigned the incomplete has left the university or is no longer available, the chair of the department or the program director will be responsible for making sure that the completed work is graded, and a final grade is submitted.
An I grade may be changed to a W only in very unusual circumstances and when the student’s situation has changed since the I grade was awarded. In these cases, the request for a change to a W must be in writing, documented, and approved by the instructor, department chair and dean. Students will not be allowed to graduate until all grades of I have been resolved.
In the case of courses that do not fit within the traditional semester calendar, the faculty member assigns the I grade. The time periods for the removal of I grades before they become grades of F are the same as those stated in the previous paragraph.
Extension of the I time limitation normally will not be approved except for reasons beyond the student’s control and only if the supervising faculty member is available and willing to supervise the work beyond the normal time limit. Students should submit the request to the instructor, who should submit approval, via the chair, to the University Registrar in order to retain the I. The approval from the instructor should designate the expiration date of the extension.
A grade of II indicates incomplete work not subject to the time limits described above for I grades. The II grade can be used only in those courses directly related to the research for and preparation of the graduate thesis/dissertation.
Z Grades. A grade of Z indicates that no grade has been reported by the instructor and will convert to a grade of F if not removed through the last day of classes of the following term (excluding the exam period) according to the following schedule: Z grades from the fall semester become F’s if not removed by the last day of classes of the spring semester; Z grades from the spring semester and the summer session become F’s if not removed by the last day of classes of the fall semester. Students will not be allowed to graduate until all grades of Z have been resolved.
Interim Academic Evaluation
Faculty teaching 100- and 200-level undergraduate courses will provide specific feedback regarding progress in the course in the fifth week of the semester in the fall and spring semesters. Providing timely information to students on graded work makes students aware of their performance so they can determine whether to seek additional help from the faculty member, tutoring services when available, their academic advisor, and/or withdraw from the course prior to the established deadline for withdrawal.
Mid-Semester Feedback
The University believes that regular assessment of students and feedback to them is essential to effective teaching and learning. Therefore, faculty members will provide all students with evaluation of their progress in a course prior to midsemester (or equivalent in a nonsemester course) so that students have information about their progress before the withdrawal deadline, which is the end of the tenth week of classes.
Registration
There are several registration options available to students: registration via the web at my.odu.edu , click LEO online, in person, on-campus registration, and off-campus registration.
Eligible students are encouraged to preregister in order to improve the likelihood of obtaining satisfactory schedules of classes. Preregistration is reserved for currently enrolled degree-seeking students. Eligible students will be assigned a “time ticket” four to six weeks prior to preregistration. Open registration begins immediately following the preregistration period.
Complete registration information, important deadlines and the final examination schedule can be found at www.odu.edu/registrar . The course schedule is available at www.leoonline.odu.edu by March 7 for summer and fall semester classes and by October 7 for spring semester classes.
Priority Preregistration for Active Duty, Veterans, Reservists and Virginia National Guard Service Members
Code of Virginia § 23.1-904 (C) states that:
The governing board of each public institution of higher education shall, in accordance with guidelines developed by the State Council of Higher Education for Virginia, implement policies that recognize the scheduling difficulties and obligations encountered by active-duty members of the United States armed forces.
The State Council of Higher Education for Virginia in consultation with the Military Education Advisory Committee (MEAC) has issued guidelines that require state colleges and universities to establish course registration policies that provide reasonable accommodation to students who are active-duty military members, veterans, reservists and Virginia National Guard members. The policy can be found at the following link: https://www.odu.edu/about/policiesandprocedures/bov/bov1400/1418
Staff in the Office of the University Registrar, Military Connections Center and the Office of Admissions will be trained to communicate the policy to students who may be qualified for this benefit.
Dropping, Adding, and Withdrawing From Classes
See the academic calendar in this Catalog or the Registrar’s Office website at http://www.odu.edu/registrar for deadlines for adding or dropping classes. For information regarding the refund schedule, see the chapter on Financial Information or go to the Office of Finance’s web page at http://www.odu.edu/finance .
Class Schedule Changes and Drop/Add Procedures
During the fall and spring semesters, students may add and drop classes within the first 11 calendar days after the first day of classes for the semester (for full semester classes). This is normally the Tuesday following Labor Day for the fall semester and the Tuesday following the Martin Luther King holiday for the spring semester.  Please refer to www.odu.edu/registrar and click on the link to “Academic Calendar” for the dates to drop classes in courses not spanning the full semester.
Once registered, a student must drop or add classes via the secure website at https://portal.odu.edu , click LEO online or submit a completed drop/add form to the Office of the University Registrar. The date the form is received in the Office of the University Registrar or processed via LEO determines tuition adjustments, if applicable. If needed, drop/add forms can be downloaded from the Registrar’s Office website: http://odu.edu/registrar/forms and submitted electronically to register@odu.edu.
First-year students are strongly encouraged to seek advising before dropping or adding any class. Students enrolled in degree programs in which sequencing is critical are urged to consult their academic advisors before scheduling changes. In such programs, dropping of courses without prior consultation with academic advisors may necessitate additional time to complete University and/or departmental degree requirements.
See the academic calendar in this Catalog or at https://www.odu.edu/academics/calendar and click on the link to “calendars” for the dates for adding or dropping classes. For information regarding the refund schedule, see the chapter on Tuition, Fees and Financial Information or go to the Office of Finance’s web page at www.odu.edu/finance . There may also be financial aid implications to dropping or withdrawing from a course. For more information about how financial aid could be impacted, seek advice from a financial aid advisor or visit the Office of Financial Aid website at www.odu.edu/finaidoffice/manage/dropping-a-class .
ODU does not automatically drop or withdraw students from classes for failure to attend or failure to pay tuition.  The student must initiate the process to withdraw from classes.
Withdrawal From Classes or From the University
Policy for Dropping and Withdrawing From Classes
Dropping Classes
Prior to the start of and during the first 11 calendar days of the semester, a student may drop a course; during this period no grade will be assigned and no record of the course will be entered on the student’s permanent academic record. Please refer to www.odu.edu/registrar and click on the link to “Academic Calendar” for the dates to drop classes in courses not spanning the full semester.
Withdrawal from Classes
After the first 11 calendar days of the semester, a student may withdraw from any course through the end of the twelfth week of classes of a regular semester not including the exam period.  For all other non-standard semester courses (i.e., Summer Sessions, Maymester, Winter Session, or eight-week sessions), a student may withdraw after the drop/add period through the day prior to the last day of classes for that session.  A grade of W will be assigned during this period.  However, some degree programs have withdrawal, continuance and progression policies that supersede this policy because of the nature of the professional standards and practices underlying the specific curriculum.  Students should consult with their advisor or student success coach (for online students) to determine if there are more stringent requirements for withdrawing from courses in specific majors.
Withdrawal from a course after the twelfth week of a regular session (or its equivalent in a non-­semester course) is usually not permitted. However, in the event of an illness or other severe hardship beyond the student's control, the student should submit, no later than the last day of classes, a written petition for permission to withdraw to the instructor. If permission is granted, a grade of W will be recorded. If permission is not granted, the student will not be allowed to withdraw from the course. Any appeal of decisions should be brought to the department chair.
Please refer to www.odu.edu/registrar and click on the link to “Academic Calendar” for the dates to withdraw from classes in courses not spanning the full semester. Information on tuition refunds can be found on the Office of Finance website at http://www.odu.edu/admission/costs-tuition/tuition/refunds .
Students are encouraged to contact their instructor, advisor, and Student Success Director (for online students) to discuss the implications of withdrawing. Prior to withdrawing from any course, students receiving financial aid should consult their financial aid counselor. Course withdrawal may adversely impact satisfactory academic progress for financial aid purposes and limit the student's ability to continue receiving financial aid.
Withdrawal from a course after the last day of classes of a regular semester (or after the day prior to the last day of classes for non-semester courses) is not permitted.
Students who have a financial hold on their record are not able to withdraw from classes online.  However, they may withdraw by the published deadline at the Registrar’s Office between 8:00 a.m. and  5:00 p.m. Monday-Friday or by email to register@odu.edu .  The office is located at 1009 Rollins Hall.
A student who stops attending classes without withdrawing from the course will receive a grade of WF, except if the student’s performance was an F at the time the student stopped attending class, in which case a grade of F will be assigned. The grade of WF will carry no grade points, and will be computed in the grade point average as a grade of F.
ODU does not automatically drop or withdraw students from classes for failure to attend or failure to pay tuition.  The student must initiate the process to withdraw from classes and file a Tuition Appeal if applicable.  Tuition Appeal forms and full details are available from the Office of Finance web site: http://www.odu.edu/admission/costs-tuition/tuition/appeals .
Drop and Withdrawal Deadlines
Specific deadline dates for dropping and withdrawing from classes can be found on the Academic Calendar at https://odu.edu/academics/calendar.
Administrative Withdrawal From the University
During the course of any semester, there will be situations, such as severe illness, death in the immediate family, or disciplinary actions, which will require that the University initiate an administrative withdrawal from the University to assist a student or to implement a University-imposed sanction. The following procedures will be used.
The request for withdrawal is initiated either by the student because of an extenuating personal situation or by the University because of a disciplinary situation.
This action will normally be handled by the Vice President for Student Enrollment, Engagement & Services or designee. If the student initiates the withdrawal, the Office of the Vice President for Student Enrollment, Engagement & Services will determine what verification is necessary and document the situation.
A request will be submitted to the Office of the University Registrar to withdraw the student from all classes.
The student’s instructors will be notified. If the student is withdrawing after the last day of classes, part of this notification will include the opportunity for the faculty member to raise objections if the student’s classroom performance is such that a withdrawal (W) would not be appropriate. If a faculty member objects, the faculty member will inform the University Registrar and the original grade assigned by the faculty member will stand.
The request for withdrawal must be initiated by the student within one calendar year counting from the first day of classes of the term for which administrative withdrawal is sought. Requests for withdrawal that have the necessary documentation but are received after the one-year deadline may be reviewed by an appeals committee consisting of at least three members and including both faculty and administrators, to be convened by the Director of Student Outreach and Support in Student Enrollment, Engagement & Services. These requests must include clear and compelling reasons for not submitting the request within one calendar year.
Tuition refund appeals are handled separately and must be submitted to the Office of Finance. Students submitting requests after the one-year deadline are not eligible for a tuition appeal.
Students receiving financial aid should consult their financial aid counselor prior to submitting a tuition refund appeal.
Any exceptions for undergraduate students must be approved by the Vice Provost for Academic Affairs or designee.  Exceptions for graduate students must be approved by the Dean of the Graduate School.
Sudden Withdrawal and Prolonged Absence Due to Military Mobilization
Guidelines are provided for students whose service in the armed forces of the United States has required their sudden withdrawal or prolonged absence from enrollment at Old Dominion University. The policy can be found at the following link:
https://www.odu.edu/about/policiesandprocedures/bov/bov1400/1416
Guidelines and Procedures for Grade Adjustments for Nonacademic Reasons
Students are responsible for notifying the faculty member of errors in the assignment of grades (e.g., a C received instead of an A) immediately upon receipt of the grade. If confirmed, the instructor will submit a grade change using the “Report a Change of Grade” link in the Faculty & Advisors menu in Leo Online. If the grade is older than two semesters or has previously been changed, the instructor should complete the electronic Grade Change Form available via the MyODU portal. Once submitted, the grade change request is forwarded to the chair or program director for consideration. If the chair or program director approves, the form will be signed electronically and forwarded to the Office of the University Registrar for processing.  If the chair or program director does not approve, they should notify the instructor of the reasons for denial. When a grade change is needed and the instructor who assigned the grade has left the university or is no longer available, the student should contact the chair of the department or program director who will be responsible for verifying the change and submitting the electronic Grade Change Form to the Office of the University Registrar. Students are responsible for notifying the Office of the University Registrar of administrative errors immediately upon receipt of the grade.
Students are notified via email when a change of grade is processed by the Office of the University Registrar.
Grade Appeals: Policy and Procedures
Policy and Purpose
The purpose of the grade appeal procedure is to serve the needs of graduate and undergraduate students who believe that they were unjustly awarded a final course grade by a faculty member through prejudice or caprice. This policy applies to the final grade for the award of academic credit and does not apply to graduate and undergraduate examinations that are administered as part of the degree progression and certification processes (such as comprehensive examinations and candidacy examinations at the graduate level).
The basis for a grade appeal is the student’s charge that the final grade was awarded through prejudice or caprice. The burden of proof rests with the student.
Students must initiate the first review of the appeal within 45 days of the official end of the semester in which the grade was awarded. For grades awarded and appealed from fall and summer semesters, the entire appeal process must be completed before the official end of the next semester; the entire appeal process for grades awarded and appealed from the spring semester must be completed before the official end of the next fall semester.
Procedure Prior to initiating a formal appeal, the student must attempt to consult with the instructor to request an explanation of the method of evaluation and to determine whether an error has been made. This consultation may be face to face, via e-mail, phone, or video conference if both agree, and efforts to consult with the instructor must be documented by the student. If at any point in the appeals process the student and instructor, or the student and a subsequent appeals body, agree that a grade of P is acceptable, that grade shall be assigned for the course and the appeals process will conclude. At all stages of the grade appeal processes outlined below, the instructor and student shall be notified of any actions recommended or taken by the chair, Grade Appeal Review Committee, Dean (or designated Associate Dean) or Provost and Vice President for Academic Affairs (or designated Vice Provost).
First Review of Appeal
If the student is not satisfied with the results of the consultation with the instructor, or the instructor is not available as described in section IV. B, then the student may file a grade appeal. The chair of the department in which the instructor is teaching will conduct the first review of the student’s appeal, unless the instructor is the department chair. The student’s case must be presented on the Grade Appeal Form with supporting documents/explanations to the instructor’s department chair within 14 days of the consultation with the instructor.
The student’s Grade Appeal Form should (1) state specific reasons and give examples of faculty prejudice or caprice, (2) show that prejudice or caprice affected the awarding of the final course grade, and (3) be presented as a complete package and include all other supporting documentation.
The chair shall notify the instructor of the appeal and provide the instructor with copies of the form and other documents that were submitted. The chair or Dean (or designated Associate Dean) shall also request a response from the instructor that should include at a minimum the course syllabus, grade distribution for the course, attendance policy, the grading plan for the course, and other grading rubrics.
The chair shall review all documents and may hold a hearing where both the instructor and student are present. (See section V. for guidelines for hearings.) No other persons will attend the hearing and the hearing must be recorded.
If the chair concludes that there is no cause for complaint, the student and the instructor will be notified in writing of the decision within seven days of receipt of the request for an appeal and the supporting documents. The student may request a second review of the appeal (see section II.B. for details).
If the chair concludes that there is valid cause for the complaint, the chair should consult with the instructor and student and attempt to mediate the dispute by working with both parties to agree on an appropriate course grade. Among the alternatives available for resolution of the case will be the assignment of the grade of P if the chair, the instructor, and the student express their agreement in writing. If the instructor and student agree to a grade change or to award a grade of P, the instructor will make the official grade change.
If mediation fails, the chair will notify the college Grade Appeal Review Committee of the need for a review and submit all documents to the committee. The instructor and the student will be notified of this action.
The chair will ask the college Grade Appeal Review Committee to appoint the reviewers within five working days. (See Section III for the composition of the committee.)
The faculty and the student who form the Grade Appeal Review Committee will notify the instructor and student involved in the appeal when the review will take place and request needed documents.
The Grade Appeal Review Committee will review the documents, consult with relevant parties as needed and determine if there is sufficient evidence in the documents to support the student’s appeal, or if more information is needed in which case a hearing with the student and instructor may be held. (See Section V for details about the hearing.) The review and hearing must be scheduled within 15 days of the receipt of the materials by the committee.
If the Grade Appeal Review Committee finds that there is sufficient evidence that the grade was awarded with prejudice or caprice, they may consult with the instructor to suggest a grade change and provide a rationale for that decision. The decision and rationale must be provided in writing to the instructor. The final outcome of the committee’s review will be documented and communicated to the instructor, the student, the department chair, and Dean.
If the committee finds on behalf of the student and recommends a change of grade and the instructor refuses to change the grade but is willing to assign a grade of P, then the committee will consult with the student about the advisability of accepting a P grade. Should the student agree to accept a grade of P, the instructor will make the official grade change.
If the committee finds on behalf of the student and recommends a change of grade and the student is unwilling to accept a grade of P, the Dean will review and make a recommendation to the Provost and Vice President for Academic Affairs.  The Provost and Vice President for Academic Affairs or a designated Vice Provost will submit the recommended grade change to the Registrar.  Only the Provost and Vice President for Academic Affairs or designated Vice Provost is authorized to change an instructor's grade. The instructor, chair, student, and Dean will be notified. The Provost and Vice President for Academic Affairs' decision will be final.
If the committee finds on behalf of the instructor, the original grade will stand and the instructor and the student will be notified.
If the instructor is the department chair, the student will submit the Grade Appeal Form and documents to the Dean (or designated Associate Dean) and the Dean (or designated Associate Dean) will conduct the first review following the procedures described in II.A.1-8.
If the instructor is a Dean or Vice President, the student will submit the Grade Appeal Form and documents to the chair of the department in which the Dean or Vice President is teaching the course.
Second Review of Appeal
The student may request a second review of the appeal if the conclusion of the first review is that there is no cause for complaint. The request for a second review must be submitted within seven days of the denial of the first review. The student should request in writing that the person responsible for conducting the first review forward the grade appeal package to the person responsible for conducting the second review. The instructor is notified of this action.
When the instructor is a faculty member, the Dean (or designated Associate Dean) is responsible for conducting the second review. If the instructor is the chair and the Dean (or designated Associate Dean) conducted the first review, the Provost and Vice President for Academic Affairs or designated Vice Provost is responsible for conducting the second review. If the instructor is a Dean or Vice President and the chair of the department in which the Dean or Vice President is teaching conducted the first review, the Provost and Vice President for Academic Affairs or designated Vice Provost is responsible for conducting the second review.
The second review shall follow the same procedures as the first review, as described in section II.A.1­–4.
If the person to whom the second review is submitted concludes that there is no cause for complaint, the student and the instructor will be notified in writing that the grade appeal process is complete. No further appeal will be allowed.
If the person to whom the second review is submitted concludes that there may be valid cause for the complaint, the procedures as described in section II.A.6–8 will apply.
Grade Appeal Review Committee
Committee Composition and Duties
Each college will create a Grade Appeal Review Committee that has one representative from each department in the college and a list of potential student members. If an appeal is heard, the Grade Appeal Review Committee will select two faculty members and one student from these lists.
Representatives must be full-time tenured or tenure-track faculty in an academic department elected by the department faculty. At least two committee members shall be tenured. No administrator, such as a Chief Departmental Advisor or Graduate Program Director, shall be eligible to serve on the committee.
Terms of service will be for two years. Members may be re-elected for an additional two-year term.
At the beginning of each academic year, each department in the college will submit a list of full-time students who are eligible and willing to serve on the committee. This list will be formulated each year. When needed, one student will serve on a review committee.
The committee will select its own chair and develop guidelines for the review process and procedures.
Two faculty members and one student selected from the names submitted by each department will review the appeal including documents from the student filing the appeal and the instructor of record. Neither the faculty members nor the student member shall be from the instructor’s or student’s department.
Both the instructor and the student will have the right to challenge, for valid cause, any or all of the members of the committee, and in that event replacements will be appointed and no further challenge will be permitted.
Instructors’ Responsibilities and Rights
The following are guides for the instructor’s responsibilities and rights.
Instructors have a responsibility to meet with students to explain the course grading procedure and the process for determining the final grade.
When requested, instructors must provide the documents requested for a review at all levels. These documents will include at a minimum the course syllabus, grade distribution for the course, attendance policy, and grading procedures for course tasks with rubrics. Other documents may be included or requested.
The instructor must assist in making arrangements for a hearing when one is needed.
Instructors have the responsibility to participate in a grade appeal.
No instructor shall be forced or coerced into making a grade change.
Unavailable Instructors
In the event a student makes documented efforts to consult with an instructor and is unable to find the instructor, or does not receive a response, the student shall seek assistance from the chair.
When the chair has made reasonable efforts to contact an instructor whose final grade is being appealed and is unsuccessful, the Grade Appeal Review Committee and chair will independently review available materials and reach a consensual decision. In the event that these two reviews reach different decisions that are not reconciled, the Provost and Vice President for Academic Affairs or designated Vice Provost will make a final decision. No other appeal can be made.
If the decision is in favor of the student, and the student is not willing to accept a grade of P, the Provost and Vice President for Academic Affairs or designated Vice Provost will submit the recommended grade change to the Registrar. Only the Provost and Vice President for Academic Affairs or designated Vice Provost is authorized to change an instructor's grade upon the recommendation of the college Grade Appeal Review committee.
If the decision is not in favor of the student, the instructor’s original grade will remain.
In the event of an instructor’s unavailability due to death, serious illness, or any other cause that would prevent the instructor from participating in the process in time for the process to be completed during the designated semester, the procedure in II.A.1. and IV.B.2 will be followed.
Procedures for Hearings A hearing involving the faculty member and the student may be held at any level of appeal.
After the Grade Appeal Review Committee reviews the appeal form and supporting documents and the instructor’s documents, a hearing may be held to clarify issues and/or to receive further evidence. Both the student and the instructor may submit additional materials at the hearing.
Hearings may be held at any level only when both the instructor and the student can participate. No other persons may attend this hearing.
The conclusions, decision(s), and a rationale for these must be disseminated in writing to the instructor and to the student.
If either the instructor or the student believes that the established procedures for the appeal of grades have not been followed, an appeal for an additional hearing may be made to the Dean (or designated Associate Dean), or when the chair or Dean is the instructor, to the Provost and Vice President for Academic Affairs or designated Vice Provost. The only basis for an appeal will be the failure to have been provided due process as prescribed by the policy.
Records
If the grade appeal concludes after the first review, the original Grade Appeal Form and all decision letters for each level of review will be kept in a secure location in the department chair's office for a minimum of one year.
If the grade appeal advances to the second level, the original Grade Appeal Form and all decision letters for each level of review will be kept in a secure location in the Dean's office for a minimum of one year.
Recordings of hearings will be kept in the department chair's office or the Dean’s office for a minimum of one year.
Assignment of P Grade A P grade established under this policy at any stage of the grade appeal process will be given irrespective of the University policy on hours permitted for P grades or restrictions on when a P grade is permissible and will not prevent progression in the degree program or courses for which this course is a prerequisite.
Transcripts
Transcripts are provided by the Office of the University Registrar and are issued only as requested through LEO Online. Official electronic transcripts (PDF) can be ordered through Parchment, the University's electronic transcript service provider. Transcripts should be requested at least five business days before the date needed to allow for processing and delivery. Students picking up transcripts must present valid identification. Students may access and print unofficial transcripts for personal use through LEO Online at no charge.
All grades, academic standing, degrees awarded, and degree honors are included on the transcript. Recent graduates that need to show proof of the degree earned should confirm that the graduation status in Leo Online shows "Awarded" prior to ordering a transcript.
An official transcript carries the University Seal and an authorized signature. Official transcripts are usually mailed directly to educational institutions, employers, etc. Any transcript mailed to or given directly to a student will be marked, “Issued to Student.” Partial transcripts are not issued; each transcript must include the student’s complete record at Old Dominion University. A transcript of work completed at any high school or at any college other than Old Dominion University must be obtained directly from that institution.
Graduation Information
All students must apply for graduation during the semester prior to the expected completion of degree requirements. The deadline to file the intent to graduate is generally the last day of November, February, and June for the following semester. Specific deadlines are published on the Registrar’s Office website, http://www.odu.edu/registrar .
Students can view their application and degree status in LEO Online, via https://my.odu.edu . Once the application has been processed, the student’s graduation status appears as “pending.” The status changes to “awarded” once the degree is conferred. Awarded status may take up to four weeks following the published degree conferral date.
Applications, complete instructions, and deadlines regarding graduation are available on the Registrar’s Office website at http://www.odu.edu/registrar . A separate application for each degree is required if the student is pursuing more than one degree.
Students who do not complete degree requirements as expected must reapply for the next graduation date.
Application for Graduation for Graduate Students
Graduate students should apply online at https://my.odu.edu . Graduation staff members will coordinate the evaluation process with the appropriate graduate program advisor.
All outstanding work and incomplete or unreported grades must be completed or resolved before the degree will be conferred. Master’s level and doctoral students must have submitted the thesis (if required) or dissertation to the Registrar’s Office no later than the Friday one week before commencement as well as evidence of successful completion of oral, written or other degree requirements. Graduate students should confer with the graduate program director and review materials available on The Graduate School's website for complete information ( http://www.odu.edu/graduateschool ).
Commencement
Commencement exercises are intended for students who are eligible and reasonably expect to complete degree requirements to graduate from the University within the current or following graduation period.
Commencement ceremonies are managed through the Commencement Office. Information about requirements for participation in commencement ceremonies is available at http://www.odu.edu/academics/graduation-commencement . To be eligible to participate in ceremonies, candidates must indicate their intent when they apply for graduation; any change, including changes to graduation dates, must be communicated to the Commencement Office.
May commencement ceremonies are intended for candidates graduating in May and students who expect to complete studies in August. December commencement ceremonies are intended for candidates graduating in December and students who completed studies the preceding August.
Students who expect to attend commencement ceremonies must have applied for graduation. Tickets will not be provided by the Commencement Office to students that have not applied. Participation in commencement ceremonies does not confirm that a degree has been (or will be) conferred. Degree conferral may take four to six weeks from the date of the commencement ceremony. With the exception of doctoral degrees, diplomas are not distributed at commencement.
Diplomas
Diplomas are mailed to the student's permanent address in Banner approximately 6-8 weeks after graduation. Students should verify address information in LEO when applying for graduation.
The student’s legal name (as maintained in the official student record) and the degree title (Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Science, etc.,) appear on the diploma.  Neither the major nor the minor appears on the diploma, but will appear on the transcript.
Interinstitutional Agreements and Opportunities to Fulfill the Degree
Attendance at Other Institutions
Graduate students who are enrolled at Old Dominion University may attend another institution and transfer credit earned to a degree program at Old Dominion University. While formal Old Dominion University permission is not required, students should consult the graduate program advisor to ensure that the credits to be taken at the other institution will transfer to the Old Dominion University program in which the student is enrolled.  An official transcript from the other institution must be submitted to the graduate program advisor along with any supporting materials that may be requested such as a syllabus, course description, etc. The graduate program advisor will complete an evaluation of external credits and submit the result to the Office of the University Registrar for posting to the student's academic record.
The other institution may ask the student to provide documentation of good standing or eligibility to continue at Old Dominion. These forms should be submitted to the Office of the University Registrar. Forms that require the student to demonstrate that the course(s) will be accepted for transfer credit at Old Dominion University should be submitted directly to the academic advisor.
Academic Common Market
Old Dominion University, through a number of its undergraduate and graduate programs, participates in the Southern Regional Education Board’s Academic Common Market. Eligible residents of participating states may enroll (following admission to degree status) as Academic Common Market students at in-state tuition rates. Evidence of legal domicile must be presented to the Office of the University Registrar, 1009 Rollins Hall. Information on available programs can be viewed at http://www.schev.edu/index/tuition-aid/academic-common-market.
Interinstitutional Study Program with Norfolk State University
Old Dominion University students have the opportunity to elect courses at Norfolk State University through a student exchange program agreed to by the two institutions.
The registrar of each institution will register a student for courses at the other institution if the student presents a properly signed form listing the course or courses to be taken at the other institution. The student exchange will be honored both in the regular session and in the summer session and applies to both undergraduate and graduate students. All credits earned by students will be considered as resident credit at the home institution for degree purposes. (Courses taken at NSU under this policy will be considered the same as Old Dominion University courses; all other courses are subject to transfer credit policy limitations.)
Regular bus service is provided between campuses, but is not available for evening classes.
Student Exchange Policy Between the College of William and Mary and Old Dominion University
The registrars at Old Dominion University and the College of William and Mary will each register students in all departments in the College of Sciences (Old Dominion) and the School of Marine Science (William and Mary) for courses at the other institution. If the student presents a properly signed form listing the course(s) to be taken at the other institution, the exchange will be honored in both regular sessions and in summer sessions, and will apply to graduate students at the master’s, certificate of advanced study, and doctoral levels at both institutions.
The student must have completed prerequisites for the course(s) for which he/she registers. Core curriculum requirements must be met at the home institution. Elective courses and departmental requirements may be satisfied through exchange courses, but approval is required from the student’s department. If a particular course is offered at the home institution, it may not be taken for credit at the other institution. All credits earned will be considered as resident credit at the home institution for degree purposes.
The tuition and fees are determined and retained by the student’s home institution.
Student Exchange Policy Between Eastern Virginia Medical School and Old Dominion University
The registrars of Old Dominion University and Eastern Virginia Medical School (EVMS) will each register a student for courses at the other institution if the student presents a properly signed form listing the course(s) to be taken at the other institution. The exchange will be honored both in regular sessions and in summer sessions and will apply to graduate students at the master’s and doctoral levels at both institutions. The students must have completed all prerequisites of the courses for which they register. All credit so earned will be considered as resident credit at the home institution for degree purposes. (Courses taken at EVMS under this policy will be considered the same as Old Dominion University courses; all other courses are subject to transfer credit policy limitations.)
Tuition and fees applicable to the courses taken will be handled according to current interinstitutional policies regulating these.
Navy Education Consortium and Educational Agreements
A consortium of higher education institutions, located near major naval facilities, has developed a means to enhance the opportunities for active duty naval officers to participate in graduate education at the master’s level. The institutions are Old Dominion University, George Washington University, The University of Memphis, The University of Rhode Island, San Diego State University, and the University of West Florida. The program areas which may be offered under the auspices of the consortium include international and political studies, computer information sciences, and computer science. These higher education institutions also provide a common curriculum that satisfies competency areas as set forth by the Navy for the ETMS program. Officers participating in the program are enrolled in the Master of Science in Education degree program with a major in educational administration. For current information, contact the Office of Academic Affairs.
Virginia Tidewater Consortium Exchange Program
Old Dominion University students may also take courses at any of the following Virginia Tidewater Consortium institutions: Christopher Newport University (Newport News), College of William and Mary (Williamsburg), Eastern Shore Community College (Melfa), Eastern Virginia Medical School (Norfolk), Hampton University (Hampton), Joint Forces Staff College (Norfolk), Norfolk State University, Paul D. Camp Community College (Franklin), Regent University (Virginia Beach), Thomas Nelson Community College (Hampton), Tidewater Community College (all campuses), and Virginia Wesleyan College (Norfolk).
Cross-registration is subject to the following regulations:
Cross-registration is limited to degree-seeking students with cumulative grade point averages of 3.00 or better.
Graduate students who opt to cross-register under the Virginia Tidewater Exchange Program may accumulate a maximum of 12 external credit hours to include any combination of transfer or consortium credit hours. Exceptions are granted to students enrolled in approved joint programs within the Virginia Consortium.
Graduate students must get pre-approval from their Graduate Program Director (GPD) before registering for consortium classes.
For further information, contact the Office of the University Registrar, 1009 Rollins Hall or register@odu.edu .
Search catalog
