Graduate Courses
UNIV 068 Internship (0 Credit Hours)
Student participation in a professional work experience for which credit will not apply to the degree. Approval for enrollment is determined by Monarch Internship and Co-Op Office.  Experience must be related to the student's major or career area of interest, include adequate supervision by a professional, and include at least an average of 8 hours per week.
Prerequisites: good academic standing
UNIV 094 Entrepreneurship (0 Credit Hours)
Student participation in an entrepreneurial experience for which credit will not apply to the degree. Approval for enrollment is determined by the Center for High Impact Practices. Experience must be related to the student's major or career area of interest, include adequate supervision by faculty member or a professional, and include at least an average of eight hours per week.
Prerequisites: good academic standing
UNIV 100 University Orientation (1 Credit Hour)
UNIV 101 Introduction to the College of Sciences (1 Credit Hour)
Presents the relationship between majors in the College of Sciences and the students' career goals for students planning to major in a science. Provides an orientation to the University emphasizing the learning skills needed for Science majors.
UNIV 110 Academic Success (0 Credit Hours)
UNIV 111 Sophomore Seminar (0 Credit Hours)
This seminar provides resources and opportunities for students to build relationships with other sophomores and faculty and to explore individual strengths, values, skills, and interests.
UNIV 112 Transfer Seminar (0 Credit Hours)
This seminar provides resources and opportunities for students to build relationships with other transfer students and faculty and to explore individual strengths, values, skills, and interests.
UNIV 115 Learning Communities Seminar (0 Credit Hours)
This course serves as the common course for learning communities. Students will develop a sense of community as they attend, study, and participate in various activities and events with other students, peer mentors, faculty or advisors.
UNIV 120 Career Exploration (1 Credit Hour)
A systematic exploration of individual interests and skills and career resources.  Emphasis is placed on defining goals and developing strategies to achieve goals.  Career testing and individual conferences are included.
UNIV 130 Learn and Earn Advantage Program (1 Credit Hour)
The purpose of this course is to engage students in self-reflection and work place skill enhancement, applicable to experiences encountered as part of the LEAP, as well as in the world of work. The course will help students to develop and be able to apply skills in the areas of self-presentation, work ethic, team membership, professional communication, independence and initiative, and seeing the “Big Picture” in relation to everyday workplace issues.
UNIV 195 Topics in Career Management (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected career-related topics.  Titles for specific course offerings will appear in the course schedule.
UNIV 200 Career Implementation (1 Credit Hour)
A practical examination and application of resume and cover letter writing, job search strategies, including electronic job search and networking, interview skills, and evaluating employment offers.  Designed to prepare students for internships or cooperative education experiences and/or for post graduation employment.
UNIV 295 Topics in Career Management (1 Credit Hour)
A study of selected career-related topics.  Titles for specific course offerings will appear in the course schedule.
UNIV 300 Introduction to Entrepreneurship Across the Disciplines (3 Credit Hours)
This course is a survey of entrepreneurship and is designed to introduce upper-level undergraduate students (juniors and seniors) to a wide range of approaches designed to facilitate innovation, foster start-up businesses, enable growth and ensure the continued viability of emerging and mature technical enterprises. The course will focus on entrepreneurial thinking and action and will explore the attitudes and behaviors that most frequently result in entrepreneurial success. This course will address the theories that underlay successful venture creation as well as practices that have proven to be effective.
UNIV 395 Topics in Career Management (1 Credit Hour)
A study of selected career-related topics.  Titles for specific course offerings will appear in the course schedule.
UNIV 396 Topics: Study Abroad (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics examined in an international setting.  These courses are designed to help students gain new perspectives on their fields of study, develop intercultural competencies and communication skills, and engage with situations and questions that challenge their own assumptions/values. The courses will appear in the course schedule and will be more fully described by academic advisors.
Prerequisites: Sophomore standing
UNIV 400 Career Engagement (1 Credit Hour)
A practical examination and application of resume and cover letter writing, job search strategies including the electronic job search, networking, interview skills, and negotiating a job offer.  Topics will also include the transition to the world of work and professional development.  Designed for students seeking post-graduation employment.
UNIV 407/507 Design Thinking (3 Credit Hours)
Design thinking is a human-centered approach to innovation that uses design methods and tools to integrate the needs of people and organizations, the opportunities of technology, and the requirements for personal, organizational, and business success. The design thinking course introduces students to a robust process for understanding problems, ideation, innovation, and entrepreneurship. This course is facilitated using workshops where students will work in project teams in a design thinking innovation challenge.
UNIV 495 Topics in Career Management (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected career-related topics.  Titles for specific course offerings will appear in the course schedule.
UNIV 507 Design Thinking (3 Credit Hours)
Design thinking is a human-centered approach to innovation that uses design methods and tools to integrate the needs of people and organizations, the opportunities of technology, and the requirements for personal, organizational, and business success. The design thinking course introduces students to a robust process for understanding problems, ideation, innovation, and entrepreneurship. This course is facilitated using workshops where students will work in project teams in a design thinking innovation challenge.
Search catalog
