Our Program Partners
AAPC
A trusted ODU CE partner, AAPC is the nation’s largest education and credentialing organization for medical coders, billers, auditors, practice managers, documentation specialists, compliance officers, and revenue cycle managers. We help students determine the right career path, provide resources and support throughout their studies, help them land their first job, and give them the means to advance their careers.  AAPC offers tools and resources to a network of over 220,000 coders, billers, auditors, and AAPC employees.
Certified Financial Planner Board of Standards, Inc
The Executive Certificate in Financial Planning prepares individuals for success in the demanding but highly rewarding financial planning industry. The courses in this program cover the areas of expertise that are needed to develop comprehensive, effective financial plans for a variety of individual clients. Those who successfully complete the program are awarded a certificate of completion by Old Dominion University. As part of the CFP® certification, CFP® professionals also have made a commitment to CFP Board to act as a fiduciary when providing financial advice to a client. This educational program is also registered with the Certified Financial Planner Board of Standards, Inc. The Executive Certificate in Financial Planning program consists of six courses. Courses are taken in succession and the entire program can be completed in just over one year. This program utilizes a combination of in-class lecture as well as live, online discussion to appeal to working professionals, executives and undergraduate students.
ISACA
A valued ODU CE partner, ISACA has served the professional IS/IT community for more than 50 years, leading the industry in career-advancing credentials. A global professional association and learning organization, ISACA has over 180,000 members who work in digital trust fields such as information security, governance, assurance, risk, privacy, and quality. With a presence in 188 countries and with 225 chapters worldwide, ISACA is recognized around the world for its guidance, credentials, education, training, and community.
LERN
Old Dominion University's Continuing Education department delivers classes online, around the region and on-site at business and industrial locations. Our partnership with LERN and UGotClass enables us to offer a wide range of programming and meet the evolving needs of our local, regional and global community.
By taking one of these classes, you'll register directly with LERN, who also help students, professional and lifelong learners move ahead and stay ahead.
SHRM
ODU's Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) is the world's largest HR professional society, representing +285,000 members in more than +165 countries. For nearly seven decades, the Society has been the leading provider of resources serving the needs of HR professionals and advancing the practice of human resource management. Our course is based on the NEW SHRM Learning System® for SHRM-CP/SHRM-SCP. Comprised of comprehensive learning modules teaching the SHRM Body of Competency and Knowledge™ (SHRM BoCK™), and advanced online multimedia resources, these study materials streamline study time, accelerate learning and build confidence for passing the SHRM-CP/SHRM-SCP exam.
Upright Education
Upright Education, a leading provider of online tech education, in partnership with Old Dominion University offers technology bootcamps in Coding, UX/UI Design, Digital Marketing, Data Analytics, and Tech Sales. These bootcamps, ranging from 8 to 24 weeks long, are delivered online and led by industry experts. The partnership with Old Dominion University provides students with access to world-class instruction and resources while offering them flexibility and convenience in their learning. Students will also receive unlimited career support until they land a job in their desired field.
Old Dominion University
Gornto Hall, Norfolk, VA 23529
Footer
