Communications (COMM)
COMM 500 Intercultural Communication (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to introduce students to the study of communication in cultural contexts, the purpose of which is to prepare students to live and work within an increasingly multicultural world.  This is accomplished by first defining and critically analyzing concepts of culture.  Throughout the semester, the course will investigate theories of culture and communication that address the development of cultural identity, intercultural communication competence, the role of verbal and nonverbal communication across cultures, the cultural composition of the U.S., and finally ethical communication and challenges in a globalized era.
COMM 501 Communication Theory (3 Credit Hours)
An overview of general and contextual theories of communication.  Focus is on the nature of communication theory, the role of theory in communication inquiry, and the relationships among theory, research, and practice.
COMM 503 Public Relations and Crisis Communications (3 Credit Hours)
This course introduces students to the basic elements of public relations as it pertains to assisting organizations avoid, mitigate and recover from crisis situations.  Students will have the opportunity to both observe and participate in crisis communications situations.
COMM 504 Strategic Communications and Emergency Management (3 Credit Hours)
This course introduces students to the multi-layered challenges associated with communication in the event of accidents, crises and natural disasters. In addition to incorporating basic elements of public relations as it pertains to assisting organizations avoid, mitigate and recover from external crisis situations, students will have the opportunity to both observe and participate in crafting multi-agency responses to these unplanned events.
COMM 505 Communication and Culture in the Middle East (3 Credit Hours)
The course examines the tensions between modernity and tradition in the context of Middle East culture.  Cultural variables for study include myth and religion, family structures and the use of science and technology.
COMM 512 Interpersonal Communication Theory and Research (3 Credit Hours)
A survey of classic and contemporary theories and research of communication in personal and social relationships across the lifespan.  Emphasizes communication as a means to facilitate conditions for development of positive relational outcomes.
COMM 521 Communication and Conflict Management (3 Credit Hours)
Focus on theory and research of communication processes in conflict episodes across social and personal relational contexts.  Applications of communication approaches to conflict management are emphasized.
COMM 522 Listening to Self, Others, Nature, & the Divine (3 Credit Hours)
The listening course introduces students to: 1) Practices for exploring and developing listening competencies, 2) Theoretical perspectives and models of listening, and 3) Research on listening. Practice, theory, and research are all integrated across the contexts of self, others, nature, and the divine.
Prerequisites: Graduate standing
COMM 523 Nonviolent Communication and Peace (3 Credit Hours)
Perspectives on nonviolent communication and peace are covered from the micro level (e.g., individual beliefs and worldviews) to interpersonal relationships (e.g., conflict management), groups (e.g., tribes, gangs), organizational systems (e.g., businesses, governments), and macro or global level (e.g., political relationships between nations).
COMM 524 Communicating Love (3 Credit Hours)
This course investigates the history, types, characteristics, functions, and applications of love in everyday life, emphasizing the communication of altruistic/compassionate/agape love in four interrelated contexts: self, spirit, others, and creation. Theory, research, and applications of love will be explored within the spiritual, scientific, and dialogic (the conversation between science and spirit) perspectives.
COMM 525 Family Communication Theory and Research (3 Credit Hours)
A survey of classic and contemporary theories and research of communication in family units, family relationships, and family interfacings with society. The course emphasizes communication in the social construction of evolving "family" realities as well as communication as means to facilitate conditions for development of positive domestic outcomes.
COMM 527 Children's Communication Theory and Research (3 Credit Hours)
A survey of  theories and research of communication during childhood.  Emphasis is on children as developing communicators, their relationships, and their interactions with media.  Factors affecting  optimal development of children's communication and development of applications to enhance children's communication development are emphasized.
COMM 543 Hispanic Film (3 Credit Hours)
A topical study of the major works of Spanish and Latin American film from Buneul to the present.  The course explores many issues, including those related to gender, race, symbolism, and class struggle.
Prerequisites: COMM 270A or THEA 270A or permission of instructor
COMM 544 German Cinema I (3 Credit Hours)
The first half of the 20th century was the most creative and destructive period in German and European history. Its rich cultural achievements included Viennese psychoanalytical theory of the turn of the century, Art Nouveau, German Expressionism, and the avant garde aesthetics of the Weimar Republic. Conversely, World War I and II exposed the cultural agony and human depravity of modern civilization. This course will trace these various aspects and developments in a variety of exemplary genres. Readings and discussions in German. (Cross-listed with WCS 445 / WCS 545 and GER 445 / GER 545 )
COMM 545 Communication Analysis and Criticism (3 Credit Hours)
A survey of the key methods used in critiquing various forms of human and mediated communication for the purpose of becoming more discerning consumers of public and mass mediated messages.  Analysis will include films, television, and radio programs, advertisements, newspapers, public discourses, speeches, and conversations.
COMM 547 Electronic Media Law and Policy (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on legal and policy issues related to modern media systems and technologies, with an emphasis on legal considerations of electronic media.  Subjects include First Amendment issues concerning news, programming, and advertising; station licensing; and challenges to traditional legal thought brought about by new technologies.
COMM 548 Global Media Industries (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of the rise of broadcast technology and world flow of information and entertainment.  Theory and policy issues of systems of broadcast ownership, access, regulation, programming, transborder, broadcasting and cultural imperialism and dominance of Western programming will be addressed.
COMM 555 Critical Analysis of Journalism (3 Credit Hours)
A critical examination of the news industry as practiced in the printed press, network and cable television, magazines, the Internet, and alternative press.  Class examines the political economy of journalism, the sociology of journalistic practice, international news flows, ideological/political control of news, and mythological narrative forms within news.
COMM 556 Organizations and Social Influence (3 Credit Hours)
Focuses on theories, research and applications of the social influence function of communication in a variety of organizational contexts. Examines traditional and nontraditional social influence theories and research as applied to organizational change.
COMM 557 Market Research (3 Credit Hours)
The foundation of any successful strategic communications, from marketing to public relations to advertising, is research. This course introduces students to secondary and primary research methods in an applied way, having students actually design and conduct full research studies for a client in the community. Students will discuss and conduct various forms of market research (situation, stakeholder, and competitor), explaining how it is integral to strategic thinking and responsible growth in order to directly prepare them for work in the field.
COMM 560 Social Marketing (3 Credit Hours)
Social marketing, the process through which communications professionals attempt to introduce, reinforce, or augment social change through theories and practices of marketing, is a growing field with implications ranging from social entrepreneurship to international relations to community resiliency. This course will introduce the theories of social marketing, applying them through collaborations with a local organization or cause. Students will focus on a practical approach to constructing a brand through communication strategy and media tactics, and how those relate to constructing and maintaining the identity of a larger organization while also promoting social benefit.
COMM 562 Sport and Strategic Communication (3 Credit Hours)
A survey of sport media and strategic communications. This course will expose students to the sport media industry, emphasizing the communications process in various mediums used to convey messages.  The internal and external publics involved in sport public relations will be examined, along with the steps involved in the process, particularly the strategic communication planning process.
Prerequisites: COMM 303
COMM 571 International Film History (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of world cinema as a technology, a business, an institution, and an art form from inception to the present.  Emphasis is on the narrative fiction film, its technological and aesthetic development, economic organization, and socio-cultural context.  Representative classic and contemporary works will be screened and analyzed.
COMM 572 New Media Topics: Theories and Practices (3 Credit Hours)
This seminar investigates one or two particular emergent new media practices and theories.  The topics will be chosen at the discretion of the instructor but may include issues such as 'mobile media,' 'micro media and audiences,' and 'social media.'
COMM 573 Television and Society (3 Credit Hours)
The role of television in the cultural, psychological, and economic life of America.  The structure and design of television programs; and the history and function of television in reinforcing or altering public perceptions of ideas, events, and people.  Major critical approaches are employed in examining television's social impact and global reach.
COMM 578 Media Marketing and Promotion (3 Credit Hours)
This course introduces students to the ways in which different media forms are used for advertising and marketing purposes.  Emphasis is on electronic media, though other approaches, such as direct marketing techniques and the increasing use of new media technologies for marketing, are also examined.
COMM 579 American Film History (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of American motion pictures as an art form, a business and an institution from inception to the present.  Primary attention is accorded to the narrative fiction film, its technological and aesthetic development, economic organization and social impact.  This course highlights the many connections between film history and American culture.
COMM 580 The Video Documentary II (3 Credit Hours)
Discussion/presentation topics range from production field work to post-production editing.  The final third of the semester will be devoted to compiling the rough footage in post production.
COMM 584 Strategic Media Design and Production (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to extend students' knowledge of the media elements of strategic communications, from graphics to images to video. Students will discuss how to ground creative production in strategy for a client, how to focus on content and storytelling for a specific stakeholder, and how to create an extended, coherent plan using both creative and organizational goals. This is not intended to make students 'creative' but instead to show students how to design, direct, and manage the work that a media production team might do.
COMM 585 Film and Television Genres (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to examine the conventions and meanings of various film and television genres within their broader aesthetic, socio-historical, cultural, and political contexts. Each time the class is offered it will focus in depth on a different genre, such as the gangster, the Western, the musical, the comedy, science fiction, among others. Class may be repeated for credit as long as the genres are different.
COMM 586 Advanced Filmmaking (3 Credit Hours)
This course offers students an opportunity to collaborate on a faculty led project beyond the scope of typical classroom projects. Students will execute an assigned duty for the duration of the semester.
Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor
COMM 589 Health and Interpersonal Communication (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to give an overview of contemporary scholarship on phenomena within the scope of interpersonal health communication.
COMM 590 Advanced Strategic Communications (3 Credit Hours)
In this course, students gain hands-on experience working with clients in an agency setting in which they not only work directly with clients, but are also given credit for learning new tools and software to build their portfolios. The first semester a student takes the course, they take a "junior" role where they are learning about and the process of working with their client. Repeat students take more senior roles, where they interface more extensively with the client and become leaders of teams of students and of bigger projects with more responsibility. The tools/software they learn will change each semester, as will their client, making the course a different experience each time and allowing them to grow into leadership positions that will transition well into project manager or creative director roles outside the university.
COMM 591 Communication and Activism (3 Credit Hours)
This course will delve into activism and social change from a local and global perspective in order to enhance students' perspectives of social change as it manifests via popular media and community action.
COMM 595 Topics in Communication (1-3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics designed to permit small groups of qualified students to work on subjects of mutual interest which, due to their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly. These courses will appear in the course schedule, and will be more fully described in information distributed to all academic advisors.
COMM 596 Topics in Communication (1-3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics designed to permit small groups of qualified students to work on subjects of mutual interest which, due to their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly. These courses will appear in the course schedule, and will be more fully described in information distributed to all academic advisors.
COMM 597 Tutorial Work in Special Topics in Communication (3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor. Conferences and papers as appropriate.
COMM 598 Tutorial Work in Special Topics in Communication (3 Credit Hours)
Topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor. Conferences and papers as appropriate.
COMM 600 Intercultural Communication: History, Theory and Application (3 Credit Hours)
Students begin with an overview and then cover (1) past intercultural communication research, (2) the philosophical underpinning and ethics behind intercultural communication research, and (3) current developments in intercultural communication theory. They then address the application of intercultural communication theory in specific intercultural communication contexts (e.g. business, education, health and international travel).
COMM 601 Lifespan Communication Research and Theory (3 Credit Hours)
This course takes a developmental approach to the study of communication by exploring the culminating effects of communication as it evolves across our lifetime.  It encompasses all phases of life (birth-death) across interactions within family, work, social, health, and spiritual contexts.  The focus is on foundational and contemporary lifespan theories and research.
COMM 602 Digital Communication Theory and Research (3 Credit Hours)
This class looks at emerging theories of new media and their transformative effects on industrial practices, news dissemination, cultural production, social interaction, and political engagement across the lifespan.  Students engage in ongoing theoretical debates and participate in various online endeavors that offer real world research opportunities.
COMM 603 Social Change and Communication Systems (3 Credit Hours)
Examines the role of various communication systems in enacting social change involving commercial, governmental and not-for-profit contexts.  Topics include persuasive techniques, community engagement, mobilizing large-scale social movements, and the political consequences of human and digital communication across the lifespan.
COMM 604 Lifespan Communication Research Methods (3 Credit Hours)
An overview of social scientific and qualitative methods used in lifespan development communication research.  Includes survey, experiment, observations, content and conversation analyses with an emphasis on developmental methods.  Approaches to studying communication of children, adolescents, and later life are included.
Prerequisites: COMM 601
COMM 605 Critical Methods and Digital Communication (3 Credit Hours)
This class surveys the major methodological approaches available to critical communication researchers, such as semiology, structuralism, post-structuralism, neo-Marxism, and psychoanalysis, among others, within a cultural studies tradition.  Special attention is paid to various digital communication technologies and how they are utilized throughout the lifespan.
Prerequisites: COMM 602
COMM 615 Construction of the Gendered Body (3 Credit Hours)
This course will examine: (1) the nature-nurture controversy as reflected in current theories about gender as a significant factor in the transformation of physical bodies into social bodies, (2) cultural objects and institutions that shape our gender roles and expectations, and (3) nonverbal language and power and the status of the sexes.
COMM 623 Relational Communication Across the Lifespan (3 Credit Hours)
This course explores theories and research of communication in everyday relationships across the lifespan from early childhood relationships until relationships at the end of life.  Communication in personal and social relationships, within age cohorts (early childhood, adolescence, adulthood) are highlighted.
Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor
COMM 624 Positive Communication Across the Lifespan (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines communication theories and research in light of the theories and research of positive psychology.  Topics include:  strengths-based communication theorizing, communication and happiness, positive communication functions, creative communication, and positive communication outcomes (health, wellness, peace, hope).
Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor
COMM 626 Lifespan Communication, Geography, and Food (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the intersections of communication, geography, and food from lifespan and global perspectives. Topics to be covered include communication and cooking; dinner table talk; food and folk culture; victual rituals; the portrayals of food in media (e.g., film, television, CMC, print); the roles of race, class, and gender in food production/consumption; the commercialization of food; fast food and slow food; globalization vs. the 'locavore' movement; visualization and symbolic communication about food and nutrition; and market and supermarket geographies.
COMM 628 Mediated Human Communication in the Digital Age (3 Credit Hours)
This course conceptualizes the relationship established by the processes of human communication that are mediated by new media technologies.  The course examines how such technologies affect social relationships, and how cultural values influence usage patterns of these technologies.
COMM 630 The Information Society (3 Credit Hours)
This course explores the theories, questions, claims and myths that have accompanied the rise of new communication technologies and electronically derived digital information that define the 'Electronic Revolution,' also known as the Information Society.
COMM 650 Religious Communication (3 Credit Hours)
The seminar surveys the relationship between communication and religion with an emphasis on theory, research and applications.  Topics may include the communication of religious beliefs/values via story, ritual, ceremony, worship, prayer and mediated communications.
COMM 668 Internship (3 Credit Hours)
A structured work experience providing both a conceptual understanding and on-the-job training in some aspect of lifespan and digital communication. A journal, a final paper, a log of hours, a portfolio of work, and a satisfactory evaluation by wok supervisor and cooperating faculty member are required.
Prerequisites: COMM 601 or COMM 602
COMM 678 Race and Television (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the relationships among race, racial identity, and television.  Multiple scholarly traditions are used to examine the interactions among television tests, audiences and institution, and historical and contemporary race relations.
COMM 685 Lifespan and Digital Communication Capstone Course (3 Credit Hours)
A capstone seminar for non-thesis students in their final semester to synthesize the relationships between lifespan and digital communication. Students will develop and complete a research paper or a digital communication project that they will present to a COMM graduate committee.
Prerequisites: COMM 601 , COMM 602 , COMM 603 , COMM 604 , and COMM 605 ; permission of graduate program director
COMM 689 Thesis Preparation (3 Credit Hours)
This course is intended for students in the Master of Arts in Lifespan and Digital Communication program who choose the thesis option.  Course topics include:  developing a thesis proposal, thesis rules and regulations, the thesis committee, presenting and defending a thesis proposal, and acquiring the essential tools needed to write and successfully defend an MA thesis.
Prerequisites: COMM 601 , COMM 602 , COMM 603 , COMM 604 , and COMM 605
COMM 695 Topics in Communication (1-3 Credit Hours)
The study of selected topics designed to permit qualified students to work on subjects of mutual interest in a seminar format which, due to their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly.
COMM 697 Tutorial in Special Topics in Communication (3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study of a topic under the direction of an instructor.  Conferences and papers as appropriate.
Prerequisites: Permission of the department chair
COMM 698 Thesis Research (3 Credit Hours)
This course is intended for students in the Master of Arts in Lifespan and Digital Communication program who choose the thesis option.  During the time a student is working on the MA thesis they must be enrolled in COMM 698 , followed by COMM 699 .
Pre- or corequisite: COMM 689
COMM 699 Thesis (3 Credit Hours)
This course is intended for students in the Master of Arts in Lifespan and Digital Communication program who choose the thesis option.  During the time a student is working on the MA thesis they must be enrolled in COMM 698 followed by COMM 699 .
COMM 725 Interpersonal Health Communication (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide an overview of contemporary scholarship on phenomena within the scope of interpersonal health communication. Students will become familiar with fundamental communication processes that are involved in managing physical and mental health. Additionally, they will develop an awareness of how communication among friends, family members, professionals, and others influences people's well-being, and how, in turn, health and illness shape communication and relationship dynamics. Topics to be covered include patient identity and self-disclosure, social support, patient-provider communication, end-of-life care, and health education. Consistent with the goals of graduate education, students are expected to engage with the course content, exercise critical thinking skills, develop advanced reading and writing competencies, and develop a sense of practical applications of theory and research.
COMM 795 Selected Topics in Communication Studies (1-3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics in communication studies will be covered in such a way as to permit small groups of qualified students to study subjects of mutual interest which, due to their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly.
Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor
COMM 797 Independent Research in Communication Studies (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent research directed by professors/faculty members examining communication topics.
Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor
COMM 895 Selected Topics in Communication Studies (1-3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics in communication studies are covered in such a way as to permit small groups of qualified students to study subjects of mutual interest which, due to their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly.
Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor
COMM 897 Independent Research in Communication Studies (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent research directed by professors/faculty members examining communication topics.
Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor
COMM 998 Master's Graduate Credit (1 Credit Hour)
This course is a pass/fail course for master's students in their final semester. It may be taken to fulfill the registration requirement necessary for graduation.  All master's students are required to be registered for at least one graduate credit hour in the semester of their graduation.
Search catalog
