Master of Science in Education, Special Education
TBA, Graduate Program Director
122 Child Study Center
Within the Master of Science in Education, major in Special Education, there are three, endorsement specific concentrations for those who seek both an advanced degree in special education and either initial teacher licensure or endorsement in special education.  The special education graduate program is committed to a philosophy of serving as a catalyst to promote awareness, understanding, and acceptance of individuals with disabilities. The course work focuses on the improvement of the quality and scope of educational and related services available to individuals with disabilities from infancy to adulthood. The Master of Science in Education, Special Education, Initial Licensure is offered on-line only. For more information regarding the other programs listed below, please contact the department.
Note to students in Washington State from the Student Achievement Council (SAC) concerning the Master of Science in Education-Special Education: Eligibility for initial educator certification in Washington is based on completion of a state approved educator preparation program.  This program is approved in Virginia and is authorized for field placements in Washington by the Professional Educators Standards Board.  Even though you may be residing in Washington while in this program, your application for educator certification in Washington will be processed as an out-of-state application. Go to http://pathway.pesb.wa.gov/archive/outofstate for more information.  Teachers are advised to contact their individual school districts as to whether or not this program may qualify for teacher advancement.
Master of Science in Education, Special Education - General Curriculum K-12, Adapted Curriculum K-12, or Early Childhood Special Education Concentrations
The master’s degree program with special education licensure prepares teachers and agency personnel to design and implement programs for individuals with disabilities in a variety of settings. This program can be completed in approximately two years and enrolled students will specify a special education concentration in General Curriculum K-12, Adapted Curriculum K-12, or Early Childhood Special Education (Birth to 5). In addition to meeting the Master of Science in Education degree requirements, this program targets the coursework required to satisfy the Virginia Department of Education (VDOE) special educator licensure endorsement competencies. Due to changing national accreditation standards and state licensure regulations (i.e. assessments, certifications), the programs in teacher education are under constant revision. Any student pursuing Virginia licensure should speak with their Graduate Program Director regarding requirements.
Graduates are prepared to work effectively with children, adolescents, and adults who require special educational services. Classroom instruction is supplemented by field experiences with children, adolescents, and adults in a variety of settings. Teacher interns have been placed in children’s hospitals, special education classes in public and private facilities, regional education programs, residential psychiatric hospitals, mental health centers, and community agencies.
Graduates in special education serve as key members of child study teams and are prepared to address educational, emotional, and physical disabilities. They also find employment as educational therapists, psycho-educational diagnosticians, and special education teachers and staff members in public and private schools.
Admission
Admission to the graduate program in special education is granted by the department’s graduate program director in conjunction with special education faculty. The following requirements are necessary for admission to the master's degree program.
Regular Admittance Requirements
a baccalaureate degree from a regionally accredited institution;
an undergraduate grade point average of 2.80 or better in an academic content area; and
a 400-500 word goal statement indicating why the student wishes to enroll in the special education program.
Provisional Admittance Requirements
Provisional admittance may be offered to students with marginal grades. In this case, provisional admittance requires:
a baccalaureate degree from a regionally accredited institution;
an undergraduate grade point average of 2.70 or better in an academic content area; and
a 400-500 word goal statement indicating why the student wishes to enroll in the special education program.
Curriculum Requirements
Special Education, Licensure  - Adapted Curriculum K - 12 Endorsement
The adapted curriculum program is designed to prepare teachers to instruct individuals traditionally labeled with multiple, moderate, severe, or profound disabilities who are accessing an alternative academic curriculum. Individuals accessing the adapted curriculum may have disabling conditions such as cerebral palsy, autism, or a sensory impairment. The program combines course work, supervised practica and internship to facilitate the integration of theory and practice in the development of evidence-based interventions applicable for individuals with special needs from preschool through adult in both public and private facilities. Program competencies prepare students to work in school-based programs in a variety of settings, including residential and hospitals settings. Program practica and internship allow students opportunities to apply management, instructional and problem-solving skills in one-to-one and group settings. Students wishing to be endorsed in special education: adapted curriculum will take the prerequisite, core, and adapted curriculum course blocks and teacher candidate internship.
Curriculum
