Topics in English
1-3
c.  Students in the program may make a written petition for other substitutions to the graduate program director (GPD) for electives in fields such as Asian studies, education, or professional writing. The GPD will consider substitutions in consultation with the chief departmental advisor and the instructor(s) of the courses involved. Students should consult the Graduate Catalog for requirements for the MA in Applied Linguistics.
BA or BS to MBA (Master of Business Administration) Linked Program
The linked BA/MBA or BS/MBA program is an early entry to the MBA program of study.  The early-entry program is designed for well qualified non-business undergraduate ODU students to start their MBA program prior to completing their undergraduate degree.  Well qualified non-business undergraduate students may take MBA-level courses as early as three semesters prior to graduation and count up to 12 graduate credits toward their undergraduate degree.  Students participating in the early-entry program must earn a minimum of 150 credit hours (120 discrete credit hours for the undergraduate degree and 30 discrete credit hours for the graduate degree).  Early-entry program students should carefully consider their undergraduate degree program requirements when planning their course of study.  Students in the early-entry program work in close consultation with the MBA Program Office and should refer to information in the Strome College of Business section in the graduate catalog to develop an individualized plan of study based on the required coursework.
BA or BS to MPA (Master of Public Administration) Linked Program
The linked BA/MPA or BS/MPA program provides qualified Old Dominion University undergraduate students with the opportunity to earn a master's degree in public administration while taking credits in the MPA program as an undergraduate student.  The program is designed for highly motivated students with the desire to immediately continue their education after the bachelor's degree.  The program is especially relevant to individuals seeking to work (or currently working) in the public or non-profit sectors, but is suitable for students from any undergraduate major.  Graduate courses may be taken during the fall and spring semester of the student's senior undergraduate year.  Up to 12 graduate credits can count toward both the undergraduate and graduate degree and can meet upper-level General Education requirements. After receiving the undergraduate degree, a student will continue with the MPA program, taking MPA courses until completing the required 39 credit hours. Students in the linked program must earn a minimum of 150 credit hours (120 discrete credit hours for the undergraduate degree and 30 discrete credit hours for the graduate degree).
Requirements for admission to the graduate program can be found in the School of Public Service section of the Graduate Catalog .  For additional information, please contact the School of Public Service in the Strome College of Business.
Courses
English (ENGL)
ENGL 101 Composition Studio (3 Credit Hours)
This course is an immersive study of writing, rhetoric, and composing concepts and strategies designed to extend the ENGL 110C curriculum. The course provides additional instruction, guided practice, and support as writers learn to successfully compose and revise in multiple genres for multiple purposes and audiences and navigate university literacy expectations.
Prerequisites: A score of 1 on the WSPT or an override from an academic advisor
Corequisites: ENGL 110C
ENGL 110C English Composition (3 Credit Hours)
The principal objective of the course is to prepare students to be effective writers of the kinds of compositions they will be called on to produce during their college careers.  By the end of the course, students should be more mature in their understanding and use of language, should develop efficient writing processes, and should know and demonstrate the qualities of effective composition in a given rhetorical situation.
Prerequisites: A passing grade on the Writing Success Placement Tool (WSPT)
ENGL 112L Introduction to Literature (3 Credit Hours)
This course introduces students to a broad range of literary forms, including poetry, fiction and drama, exposing students to a diverse range of writers across race, gender, sexuality, nationality, and time periods. As students engage with the readings, they will develop skills in literary interpretation, analysis and critical evaluation.
ENGL 114L American Writers, American Experiences (3 Credit Hours)
This course introduces students to the diversity of American culture as depicted in American literature. Readings expose students to a diverse range of writers across race, gender, sexuality, and time periods. As students engage with the readings, they will develop skills in literary interpretation, analysis and critical evaluation.
ENGL 126C Honors: English Composition (3 Credit Hours)
Open only to students in the Honors College. A special honors section of ENGL 110C .
Prerequisites: A passing score on the Writing Success Placement Tool (WSPT)
ENGL 127L Honors: Introduction to Literature (3 Credit Hours)
Open only to students in the Honors College.  A special honors section of ENGL 112L .
ENGL 200 Introduction to English Studies (1 Credit Hour)
A preview of the subject areas of an English major (literature, linguistics, creative writing, journalism, professional writing, rhetoric, teaching) with attention to the student's curricular and career planning.  Required of English majors.  Open to anyone interested in English.
ENGL 211C Writing, Rhetoric, and Research (3 Credit Hours)
To foster dynamic transfer into major-level writing courses, this course emphasizes academic literacy and the skills necessary to decode and understand the writing process, the fundamental rhetorical principles of writing, and the research process and how they adapt to shifting requirements of audience, subject matter, and context. It is recommended that students take this course in their sophomore year.  A student with credit for ENGL 111C, ENGL 131C, ENGL 221C, ENGL 231C or any Honors equivalents cannot receive credit for ENGL 211C .  A student also may not receive credit more than once for this course or its Honors equivalent under different titles.
Prerequisites: ENGL 110C with a grade of C or higher
ENGL 215L Deep Dive Literature (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides students the opportunity to take an in depth look into a specific literary topic of shared interest while developing their skills in literary interpretation, analysis and critical evaluation. Readings will represent a diverse set of voices and genres but also center a specific set of questions to explore.
Prerequisites: Completion of ENGL 110C or equivalent with C or higher
ENGL 226C Honors: Writing, Rhetoric, and Research (3 Credit Hours)
Open only to students in the Honors College. A special honors section of ENGL 211C .  A student with credit for ENGL 111C, ENGL 211C , ENGL 221C, or ENGL 231C cannot receive credit for ENGL 226C . A student also may not receive credit more than once for this course or its equivalent under different titles.
Prerequisites: ENGL 110C or ENGL 126C with a grade of C or higher
ENGL 228C Honors: Writing, Rhetoric, and Research: Special Topics (3 Credit Hours)
Open only to students in the Honors College. A special honors section of ENGL 231C . A student with credit for ENGL 111C, ENGL 211C , ENGL 221C, or ENGL 231C cannot receive credit for ENGL 228C . A student also may not receive credit more than once for this course or its equivalent under different titles.
Prerequisites: ENGL 110C or ENGL 126C with a grade of C or higher
ENGL 231C Writing, Rhetoric, and Research: Special Topics (3 Credit Hours)
A special themed section of ENGL 211C that is recommended for specific populations of students according to discipline, workplace, or other shared purpose. This course emphasizes academic literacy and the skills necessary to decode and understand the writing process, fundamental rhetorical principles of writing, and research, with a focus on the expectations of specific audience/s and in response to emerging rhetorical situations, thus fostering dynamic transfer into future work. The themes of these sections will be more fully described in information distributed to academic advisors. It is recommended that students take this course in their sophomore year.  A student with credit for ENGL 111C, ENGL 131C, ENGL 211C , ENGL 221C, or any Honors equivalents cannot receive credit for ENGL 231C . A student also may not receive credit more than once for this course or its Honors equivalent under different titles.
Prerequisites: A C or better in ENGL 110C
ENGL 295 Topics (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics designed for nonmajors or for elective credit within a major.
Prerequisites: ENGL 110C with a grade of C or better
ENGL 300W Introduction to Creative Writing (3 Credit Hours)
A creative writing workshop course combining individual conferences with the instructor and class discussion of student writing. Students will work in fiction, non-fiction, poetry, and drama. This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in ENGL 110C and ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C
ENGL 301 Introduction to British Literature I (3 Credit Hours)
A survey of British literature from the beginning of textual records until 1780, focusing on the development of different literary forms in their social and cultural contexts.
Prerequisites: Literature way of knowing requirement and 6-hour General Education composition requirement or permission of the instructor
ENGL 302 Introduction to British Literature II (3 Credit Hours)
A survey of British literature after 1780, focusing on the development of different literary forms in their social and cultural contexts.
Prerequisites: Literature way of knowing requirement and 6-hour General Education composition requirement or permission of the instructor
ENGL 303 Shakespeare's Histories and Comedies (3 Credit Hours)
An exploration of Shakespearean comedy and historical drama, through plays such as, A Midsummer Night's Dream, The Merchant of Venice, As You Like It, Measure for Measure, and The Tempest for the former; Richard II,  Henry IV, and Richard III for the latter.
Prerequisites: Literature way of knowing requirement and 6-hour General Education composition requirement or permission of instructor
ENGL 304 Shakespeare's Tragedies and Poetry (3 Credit Hours)
A study of Shakespearean poetry and tragedy through the longer poems and the sonnets for the former, and through plays such as Romeo and Juliet, Hamlet, Othello, Macbeth, and Antony and Cleopatra for the latter.
Prerequisites: Literature way of knowing requirement, 6-hour General Education composition requirement, or permission of instructor
ENGL 307T Digital Writing (3 Credit Hours)
This course introduces students to issues of writing in various digital environments like web pages, email, blogs, wikis, and discussion boards.  It also introduces fundamentals of hypertext authoring, digital and visual rhetoric, and image manipulation.
Prerequisites: ENGL 110C and ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C
ENGL 325 Introduction to Rhetorical Studies (3 Credit Hours)
Explores the nature and function of rhetoric and its contribution to the knowledge-making enterprises of English studies and other disciplines.  Students will use that 'lens' to assess the effectiveness of their own language practices.
Prerequisites: 6-hour General Education composition requirement
ENGL 327W Advanced Composition (3 Credit Hours)
This course emphasizes development of a mature, professional style in expository writing by study of the stylistic and analytical principles underlying effective prose writing. This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in ENGL 110C and a grade of C or better in one of the following: ENGL 211C , ENGL 221C, or ENGL 231C
ENGL 333 Introduction to Critical Theory (3 Credit Hours)
This course introduces students to theories about the nature and value of literature and gives them experience in applying such theories to specific literary texts.
Prerequisites: Lower-division General Education requirements in Literature (3 hours, under Ways of Knowing) and in Written Communication (6 hours), or permission of instructor
ENGL 334W Technical Writing (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides the student with a working knowledge of various types of technical communication, including the writing of proposals, instructions, and reports for both the specialist and the nonspecialist.  This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in ENGL 110C and ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C
ENGL 335 Editing and Document Design (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides practical experience in document design and copy editing and includes an analysis of technical formats used in journalism, business, industry, and government.  It features hands-on lab work in document presentation, page layout, and design.
Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in ENGL 110C and ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C
ENGL 336 The Short Story (3 Credit Hours)
A genre course on the art of the short story.  Students will explore how the writers' careful selection of detail creates meanings that emerge through the characters, plot, setting, diction, point of view, and other elements of fiction.
Prerequisites: Literature way of knowing requirement and 6-hour General Education composition requirement or permission of the instructor
ENGL 338 Writing for Games (3 Credit Hours)
A genre course on the aesthetic considerations of writing for games. Students will explore how games translate traditional elements of storytelling such as character, conflict, voice, and plot into effective gameplay. This course will provide students with an opportunity to experiment with composing narratives for a variety of genres of games and game-related productions. It also provide students with practical experience composing game design documents and other industry-specific forms of writing.
Prerequisites: six-hour General Education composition requirement or permission of instructor
ENGL 340 American Drama (3 Credit Hours)
A study of American drama from its beginnings to the present day.  The course includes plays from the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, with a generous selection from the twentieth and twenty-first centuries.
Prerequisites: Literature way of knowing requirement and 6-hour General Education composition requirement or permission of instructor
ENGL 342 Southern Literature (3 Credit Hours)
A survey of the literature of the American South from William Byrd to Ernest Gaines.  Selected writings are studied not only for their literary value but also as expressions of evolving regional attitudes to be evaluated in terms of the mainstream of American culture.
Prerequisites: Literature way of knowing requirement and 6-hour General Education composition requirement or permission of the instructor
ENGL 345 American Literature to 1860 (3 Credit Hours)
The course presents a survey of American literature from the beginning to the Civil War.  It will explore the many voices, genres, and textual encounters that contribute to the literary traditions we recognize as American, with attention paid to how notions of race, gender, class, and ethnicity are formulated in this period of settlement and early nationhood.
Prerequisites: Literature way of knowing requirement and 6-hour General Education composition requirement or permission of instructor
ENGL 346 American Literature Since 1860 (3 Credit Hours)
The course explores significant writers and literary movements, which might include naturalism, social realism, modernism, the Harlem Renaissance, post-war confessional poetry, the Civil Rights era, and postmodernism.
Prerequisites: Literature way of knowing requirement and 6-hour General Education composition requirement or permission of instructor
ENGL 349 The Contemporary American Novel (3 Credit Hours)
Reading and analysis of American novels published since 1945. Emphasis on contemporary themes and techniques.
Prerequisites: Literature way of knowing requirement and 6-hour General Education composition requirement or permission of the instructor
ENGL 350 Aspects of the English Language (3 Credit Hours)
An introduction to the grammar of mainstream English.  Primary focus is on analyzing English sentences, including study of parts of speech, phrases, clauses, and sentence types.
Prerequisites: 6-hour general education composition requirement or permission of instructor
ENGL 351 Fiction Workshop (3 Credit Hours)
Students write, criticize, discuss, and revise works of fiction.
Prerequisites: ENGL 300W or permission of the instructor, based on writing samples submitted
ENGL 352 Poetry Workshop (3 Credit Hours)
Students write, criticize, discuss, and revise poetry.
Prerequisites: ENGL 300W or permission of the instructor, based on writing samples submitted
ENGL 354 Client-Based Research Writing (3 Credit Hours)
This is a client-based research course that aims to provide students with workplace research experience.  The primary objective is to teach students the rhetorical nature of conducting and reporting research in professional contexts for multiple audiences.  Research methods such as surveys, interviews, and observations will be covered.
Prerequisites: ENGL 110C and ENGL 211C
ENGL 355 Game Design and Rhetoric (3 Credit Hours)
Using a number of methodologies privileged by English studies, this course will study the representative and rhetorical strategies through which computer game designers make meaning via their rhetorical choices. Multi-perspective in nature, it will also examine the discursive struggles that determine how players construct themselves as subjects in and against computer games via their rhetorical choices. This course will attempt to come to terms with the larger question of how scholars, through various forms of critical play, construct, categorize, and produce computer games as a subject of academic study.
Prerequisites: Grade of C or better in ENGL 110C , and either ENGL 211C , ENGL 221C, or ENGL 231C
ENGL 360 World Literature I (3 Credit Hours)
An introduction to selected major works in translation from the beginnings of world literature through the early seventeenth century.  Works will be chosen that illustrate the relationship of literature to cultural tradition in different global regions.
Prerequisites: Literature way of knowing requirement, 6-hour General Education composition requirement, or permission of instructor
ENGL 363 World Literature II (3 Credit Hours)
An introduction to selected major works of literature in translation from the seventeenth century to the present day.  Works from a variety of world cultures will be used to explore the interaction between literature and society in centuries of expanding global awareness.
Prerequisites: Literature way of knowing requirement, 6-hour General Education composition requirement, or permission of instructor
ENGL 367 Cooperative Education (1-3 Credit Hours)
Student participation for credit based on the academic relevance of the work experience, criteria, and evaluative procedures as formally determined by the department and the Cooperative Education program prior to the semester in which the work experience is to take place.
Prerequisites: Approval of the department and Career Development Services
ENGL 368 English Internship (1-3 Credit Hours)
A structured work experience involving skills cultivated and practiced in English classroom spaces. Reflective materials connecting educational and professional experiences are required, as well as satisfactory evaluations from the workplace supervisor.
Prerequisites: Sophomore status with a passing grade in at least one 300- or 400-level English course and approval by the Director of Student Internships prior to registration
ENGL 369 Research Practicum (3 Credit Hours)
This course enables students to combine traditional research and scholarship with real world applications.  Can be repeated for credit.
Prerequisites: ENGL 327W or ENGL 335 , plus 15 hours in the major (with sufficient coursework in an involved emphasis) and approval by faculty practicum advisor
ENGL 370 English Linguistics (3 Credit Hours)
A survey of topics in English linguistics. Topics include the sound system, the structure of words, the ways in which words and phrases form meaningful utterances, the structure of conversations, differences between spoken and written English, language acquisition by children, language variation, and language in its social context.
Prerequisites: 6-hour general education composition requirement or permission of instructor
ENGL 371W Language and Culture (3 Credit Hours)
An interdisciplinary examination of intercultural communication through film and readings in anthropology, linguistics, and world literature, this course will compare the values, beliefs, social structures and conventions of a number of cultures to those of the U.S. This course is part of the World Cultures interdisciplinary minor.  This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: 6-hour general education composition requirement or permission of instructor
ENGL 380 Reporting and News Writing I (3 Credit Hours)
This class focuses on media literacy and on the role of media in society.  Students learn and practice elements of news writing, including writing leads, organizing stories, reporting techniques, and interviewing.  Story assignments come from handouts, press releases, press conferences, speeches, and public meetings.  Some assignments are completed under simulated deadline pressure in the computer lab.
Prerequisites: Six semester hours in English
ENGL 381 Public Relations (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to introduce the student to certain disciplines related to the public relations process.  The emphasis is equally distributed between the handling of written materials and the dynamics of group relations, i.e., the publicist and the person or persons whom he or she is representing.  The focus is distinguished from advertising by virtue of its emphasis upon public service, particularly the continued need for the free flow of information in the democratic process.
Prerequisites: Six semester hours in English
ENGL 382 Reporting News for Television and Digital Media (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on writing for television news and producing online news reports.  Students strengthen their journalistic skills and learn the importance of writing clearly for a viewing audience while working under newsroom deadlines.  By the end of the course, students should feel confident in producing accurate, detailed reports for both television news and online news sites.
Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in ENGL 110C and ENGL 211C
ENGL 383 Digital Journalism (3 Credit Hours)
Students will create a WordPress site and are expected to produce news stories on this site from events on campus and in the community. These news stories may include the use of audio, short video, hyperlinks, infographics, digital maps, and photo galleries. This is a hands-on practical course that will include news reporting and writing for on-line platforms, podcasts, blogs, video, and social media. Students will create a Twitter account and will be expected to Tweet from news events that they will cover. Additionally, in a group project, students will either produce a podcast or a video news story. By the end of the course, students will have marketable digital portfolio.
Prerequisites: Grade of C or better in ENGL 110C and either ENGL 211C , ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C
ENGL 384 Business and Science Journalism (3 Credit Hours)
This course is a combination of lecture and hands-on news reporting/analysis. The focus of this course is to familiarize students with the techniques of the traditional and 'new media' journalist engaged in addressing critical societal problems. Additionally, this course will emphasize techniques of journalistic research to create reporting that is thorough, fair, and well-supported.
Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in ENGL 110C and ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C
ENGL 385 The Press and Making of American Democracy (3 Credit Hours)
In this course, students will study the role journalism and a free press have played in American history from the Colonial period to the current digital age. Most significantly, students will understand the relationship between a free press and the development of American democracy.  The way the press has framed the debate on political, cultural, economic and social issues over the course of U.S. history will be examined. Also examined will be how the changing practice of journalism – from print, to radio, television and today’s social media - has impacted the relationship between the media, the government, and the citizen.
Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in ENGL 110C and ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C
ENGL 387 TV News Production (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide students with an introduction to the reporting, writing, and production aspects of a television news program. Students will learn how to create 15- and 30-minute news broadcasts by developing story ideas and news gathering. Students will also learn the intricacies of shooting and editing video along with the production process involved in recording a live news broadcast. Each student will spend time both in front of and behind the television studio cameras. The goal of this course is to produce weekly news programs worthy of broadcast on local television. Students will assume the roles of reporter, writer, producer, floor director, photojournalist, videographer, technician, and more.  (Cross listed with COMM 387 / THEA 387 )
Pre- or corequisite: COMM 382 or ENGL 382
ENGL 390 TESL Methods, Materials, & Assessment (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide students with the background and tools necessary for teaching English as a Second Language (ESL) at the K-12 or post-secondary level. The course covers the major theories of language learning, focusing primarily on current methods for language learning and teaching along with practical applications of teaching methods through a focus on designing activities and lesson plans, developing assessment tools, and teaching with technology.
Prerequisites: 6-hour general education composition requirement or permission of instructor
ENGL 395 Topics in English (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics designed for nonmajors or for elective credit within a major.  These courses will appear in the course schedule and will be more fully described in information distributed to academic advisors.
Prerequisites: Grade of C or better in ENGL 110C and either ENGL 211C , ENGL 221C, or ENGL 231C
ENGL 396 Topics in English (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics designed for nonmajors or for elective credit within a major.  These courses will appear in the course schedule and will be more fully described in information distributed to academic advisors.
Prerequisites: Lower-division General Education requirements in Literature (3 hours, under Ways of Knowing) and in Written Communication (6 hours), or permission of instructor
ENGL 406/506 The Teaching of Literature (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide an intensive examination of issues, approaches, and methods utilized in the teaching of literature, particularly literature written for children and young adults.
Prerequisites: One 300-level literature course or permission of the instructor
ENGL 407/507 Chaucer's Canterbury Tales (3 Credit Hours)
A study of The Canterbury Tales with an introduction to Middle English language and culture.
Prerequisites: One 300-level English course or permission of instructor and a grade of C or better in in one of the following: ENGL 211C , ENGL 221C, or ENGL 231C
ENGL 416/516 English Renaissance Drama (3 Credit Hours)
An extensive survey of the secular national dramas of Renaissance England that were written and performed by Shakespeare's contemporaries in London between 1576 and 1642.  Students study the literary features, social contexts and ideological underpinning of representative works by Kyd, Marlowe, Jonson, Webster, Ford, and others.
Prerequisites: One 300-level English course or permission of instructor and a grade of C or better in in one of the following: ENGL 211C , ENGL 221C, or ENGL 231C
ENGL 418W/518 Jewish Writers (3 Credit Hours)
This course introduces students to the Jewish literary traditions and the cultural trends shaping these traditions and the Jewish identity.  It will examine the impact of such issues as immigration, family, marginality, the Holocaust, assimilation, cultural diversity, feminism, Israel, race and religion.  Readings will include  short stories, poems, essays, novels, and autobiographical writing.  This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: One 300-level English course or permission of instructor and a grade of C or better in ENGL 110C and a grade of C or better in one of the following: ENGL 211C , ENGL 221C, or ENGL 231C
ENGL 419/519 The Harlem Renaissance (3 Credit Hours)
The class provides students with a solid grasp of the Harlem Renaissance: what it was, why it came to be, and how it continues to resonate in American culture. Students will gain a greater understanding of this period and the ways in which the artistic endeavors of the Harlem Renaissance--especially the literature--helped to transform that era and make possible the growing respect for diversity that we now enjoy.
Prerequisites: One 300-level English course or permission of instructor and a grade of C or better in in one of the following: ENGL 211C , ENGL 221C, or ENGL 231C
ENGL 421/521 British Literature 1660-1800 (3 Credit Hours)
British literature from the Restoration of the monarchy after the Civil War and Puritan Commonwealth to the French Revolution, focusing on how cultural changes (legalized female actors, commercialized printing, colonialism, and growing market capitalism) interacted with the flowering of satire and scandalous theatrical comedy, and the emergence of modern literary forms (periodical journalism, 'picturesque' poetry, and the novel).
Prerequisites: One 300-level English course or permission of instructor and a grade of C or better in in one of the following: ENGL 211C , ENGL 221C, or ENGL 231C
ENGL 423/523 The Romantic Movement in Britain (3 Credit Hours)
A study of the literature written in Britain between 1770-1830, focusing on how the literary experiments and innovations of poets like Blake, Wordsworth, Coleridge, Byron, Percy Shelley, Keats, Burns, and Barbauld, and of novelists like Mary Shelley, Radcliffe, and Scott interacted with cultural changes such as the Industrial Revolution, the French Revolution, and the emergence of feminism and working-class radicalism.
Prerequisites: One 300-level English course or permission of instructor and a grade of C or better in in one of the following: ENGL 211C , ENGL 221C, or ENGL 231C
ENGL 427W/527 Writing in the Disciplines (3 Credit Hours)
This is a discussion/workshop course emphasizing contexts and strategies of text production in and across academic disciplines and professional settings.  Students will produce a variety of texts designed to meet the needs of specific audiences.  This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in ENGL 110C and ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C
ENGL 432/532 Origins and Early Development of the British Novel to 1800 (3 Credit Hours)
A study of early British novels and how the novel genre developed from and in relation to other traditions such as the epic, romance, criminal biography, periodical journalism, and travel narrative.
Prerequisites: One 300-level English course or permission of instructor and a grade of C or better in in one of the following: ENGL 211C , ENGL 221C, or ENGL 231C
ENGL 433/533 Victorian Literature (3 Credit Hours)
A study of the chief writers and the cultural and philosophical backgrounds of the Victorian era, touching on the changes from the early to the later part of the period.  Works analyzed include fiction, nonfiction prose, and poetry.
Prerequisites: One 300-level English course or permission of instructor and a grade of C or better in in one of the following: ENGL 211C , ENGL 221C, or ENGL 231C
ENGL 435W/535 Management Writing (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on writing as a means of making and presenting management decisions.  This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C , and six semester hours in English, to include ENGL 334W or permission of the instructor
ENGL 436/536 Writing for the Government (3 Credit Hours)
This course will focus on writing for a number of government agencies through the application of rhetorical theory. The course will apply theory to practice in the process of assessing audience, context, and genre, as well as ethical writing practices.
Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in ENGL 110C and a grade of C or better in one of the following: ENGL 211C , ENGL 221C, or ENGL 231C
ENGL 438/538 The Twentieth-Century British Novel (3 Credit Hours)
Offered in specific sections of 1900-1945, 1945-present, 1900-present.  Major British novels are studied.
Prerequisites: One 300-level English course or permission of instructor and a grade of C or better in in one of the following: ENGL 211C , ENGL 221C, or ENGL 231C
ENGL 439/539 Writing in Digital Spaces (3 Credit Hours)
This course will teach students the rhetorically sound development of digital media for a range of audiences within a variety of possible digital contexts through discussion of accessibility and the application of fundamentals of usability studies.
Prerequisites: ENGL 307T or equivalent or permission of instructor
ENGL 440/540 General Linguistics (3 Credit Hours)
An introduction to linguistic analysis of world languages. Emphasis is on the analysis of sound systems (phonetics, phonology) and the structure of words and sentences (morphology and syntax).
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of instructor; previous 300- or 400-level coursework in phonetics or linguistics strongly recommended with ENGL 370 preferred
ENGL 441/541 American Travel Literature (3 Credit Hours)
This is a survey course that examines the American experience, American identity and American culture through travel 'texts' that include prose, poetry, art, and film.  The course takes an interdisciplinary American Studies approach, using lenses such as race, gender, and class.
Prerequisites: ENGL 112L or ENGL 114L
ENGL 442/542 English Grammar (3 Credit Hours)
This course is a descriptive study of English grammar as it relates to the contexts in which it is used, with implications for grammar pedagogy and TESOL classrooms.
Prerequisites: ENGL 350 or permission of instructor
ENGL 443/543 Southern and African American English (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on the linguistic diversity of the American South, with an emphasis on different dialects and cultures throughout the region. In addition to consideration of the variation in the language system, it examines the social salience of stigmatized Southern varieties and dialect discrimination, directed towards Southern and African American speakers both inside and out of the South.
Prerequisites: 6-hour general education composition requirement or permission of instructor
ENGL 444/544 History of the English Language (3 Credit Hours)
A study of the origins and development of the English language. Focus is on the changes of sounds, words, and other language structures across time, with deep consideration of the social and cultural factors that shape the history of English.
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of instructor; previous 300- or 400-level coursework in phonetics or linguistics is strongly recommended with ENGL 370 preferred
ENGL 445/545 Forensic Linguistics (3 Credit Hours)
The course is an introduction to forensic linguistics—the application of linguistic analysis to language as used in legal contexts (e.g., federal, state, and local code, legal documents, government and the judicial process, etc.). Course topics include interaction in the legal process (interviews, interrogations, courtroom discourse), authorship analysis, speaker identification and profiling, multilingualism, trademarks and product warnings, language and sexual crimes, and terrorism. Students become familiar with debates in the forensic domain, theoretical issues, and tools of analysis that are suited to forensic work.
Prerequisites: 6-hour general education composition requirement or permission of instructor
ENGL 447/547 The American Novel to 1920 (3 Credit Hours)
Examination of the American novel from its origins in the late eighteenth century through World War I.  The course will emphasize the novel as a genre, cultural trends during the period, and such relevant literary modes as romanticism, realism, and naturalism.
Prerequisites: One 300-level English course or permission of instructor and a grade of C or better in in one of the following: ENGL 211C , ENGL 221C, or ENGL 231C
ENGL 448/548 The American Novel 1920 to Present (3 Credit Hours)
Examination of the American novel from the end of World War I to the present day.  The course will emphasize formal issues related to the genre of the novel and relevant literary and cultural trends during the period including modernism and postmodernism.
Prerequisites: One 300-level English course or permission of instructor and a grade of C or better in in one of the following: ENGL 211C , ENGL 221C, or ENGL 231C
ENGL 449/549 Craft of Literary Nonfiction (3 Credit Hours)
A detailed study of technique in literary nonfiction with an emphasis on the memoir, the essay, reportage, and travel narrative.  Especially designed for, but not limited to, creative writing students; supplements the creative writing workshops.
Prerequisites: ENGL 300W , or three semester hours in literature and permission of the instructor
ENGL 450/550 American English (3 Credit Hours)
When people think of 'American English,' they usually have a standard form in mind. In this course, we focus on the variety of ways English is spoken in the U.S. and the social meaning of that variation. We also discuss language-based discrimination and strategies that can be used to confront it. Models for collecting, describing, and analyzing variation in American English are introduced and applied to real-life situations.
Prerequisites: 6-hour general education composition requirement or permission of instructor
ENGL 451/551 Advanced Fiction Workshop (3 Credit Hours)
This course, an expansion of the principles and techniques learned in ENGL 351 , focuses on the writing and criticism of the short story, the novella, and the novel.
Prerequisites: ENGL 351 ; junior standing, or permission of the instructor, based on writing samples submitted
ENGL 452/552 Advanced Poetry Workshop (3 Credit Hours)
This course, an expansion of the principles and techniques learned in ENGL 352 , focuses on the writing and criticism of poetry.
Prerequisites: ENGL 352 and junior standing or permission of the instructor, based on writing samples submitted
ENGL 454/554 Creative Nonfiction (3 Credit Hours)
A course in the techniques of writing nonfiction imaginatively within a factual context.  Emphasis is placed on regard for reader psychology, selection of significant detail, and the development of a style at once lively and lucid.  Assignments are made individually with regard to the student's field of interest---history, biography, science, politics, informal essay, etc.  Advice is given on the marketing of promising manuscripts.
Prerequisites: ENGL 327W or ENGL 351 and junior standing or permission of the instructor, based on writing samples submitted
ENGL 455/555 The Teaching of Composition, Grades 6-12 (3 Credit Hours)
A study of the theory and practice of teaching writing.  Special attention will be given to the ways effective teachers allow theories and experiences to inform their pedagogical strategies.
Prerequisites: ENGL 300W or ENGL 327W or permission of the instructor
ENGL 456/556 The Craft of Fiction (3 Credit Hours)
A detailed study of fictional technique in the novel and short story, with emphasis on character development, conflict, point of view, plot, setting, mood, tone, and diction.  Especially designed for, but not limited to, creative writing students; supplements the creative writing workshops.
Prerequisites: Six semester hours in literature or ENGL 300W plus three semester hours in literature; junior standing or permission of the instructor
ENGL 457/557 The Craft of Poetry (3 Credit Hours)
A detailed study of technique in poetry, with emphasis on form, imagery, rhythm, and symbolism.  Especially designed for, but not limited to, creative writing students; supplements the creative writing workshops.
Prerequisites: Six semester hours in literature or ENGL 300W plus three semester hours in literature; junior standing or permission of the instructor
ENGL 459W/559 New Literatures in English (3 Credit Hours)
A study of the diverse 'new' literatures in English, including those of the Caribbean and Central America, Africa, India, as well as of Canada and Australia, in their current historical and political contexts. This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: One 300-level literature course or permission of instructor and a grade of C or better in ENGL 110C and a grade of C or better in one of the following: ENGL 211C , ENGL 221C, or ENGL 231C
ENGL 461/561 American Poetry of the Early Twentieth Century (3 Credit Hours)
Works of important American poets from 1900-1945 are studied.
Prerequisites: One 300-level English course or permission of instructor and a grade of C or better in in one of the following: ENGL 211C , ENGL 221C, or ENGL 231C
ENGL 463W/563 Women Writers (3 Credit Hours)
This course applies concepts developed through women's studies scholarship and feminist literary criticism to works by women writers of different races and cultures. This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: One 300-level course in English or permission of instructor and a grade of C or better in one of the following: ENGL 211C , ENGL 221C, or ENGL 231C
ENGL 464W/564 Native American Literature (3 Credit Hours)
This class offers an investigation of Native American literature both past and present and seeks to foster an appreciation for indigenous cultures, traditions, and the ongoing concerns that inform so much of Native literary output. By privileging Native centered approaches to narrative and history-keeping, the course hopes to promote a greater understanding of the issues Native peoples faced in the colonial milieu and the continued implications of those histories for Native communities and indigenous identities today.  This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: One 300-level course in English or permission of instructor and a grade of C or better in one of the following: ENGL 211C , ENGL 221C, or ENGL 231C
ENGL 465W/565 African American Literature (3 Credit Hours)
An investigation of how African American literature has innovated, influenced, and been influenced by literary movements, historical events, social transitions, and political upheavals. This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: One 300-level course in English or permission of instructor and a grade of C or better in one of the following: ENGL 211C , ENGL 221C, or ENGL 231C
ENGL 466W/566 Asian American Literature (3 Credit Hours)
The course introduces students to key texts in Asian American literature, supported by critical studies (and occasion films) to interrogate the theme of Asian American identities in their multiple forms.  The course will examine sociopolitical histories that undercut the literature and the contributions of Asian American writers to the breadth and scope of American as well as global literature today.  This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: One 300-level course in English or permission of instructor and a grade of C or better in one of the following: ENGL 211C , ENGL 221C, or ENGL 231C
ENGL 468 Advanced English Internship (1-3 Credit Hours)
A structured work experience involving skills cultivated in English classroom spaces. Reflective materials connecting educational and professional experiences are required, as well as satisfactory evaluations from the workplace supervisor.
Prerequisites: A passing grade in ENGL 368 and approval by the Director of Student Internships prior to registration
ENGL 473/573 Writing with Video (3 Credit Hours)
This course engages students in a comprehensive exploration of video as a rhetorical narrative medium, with emphasis on the actual production of video work.  Writing is also integrated into the production process.  From brainstorming to storyboarding and critique, writing is positioned as an integral part of the course.
Prerequisites: ENGL 307T
ENGL 477/577 Language, Gender and Power (3 Credit Hours)
This class explores social hierarchy through the lenses of language and power. Using the metaphor of the 'cultural food chain' for the social order (gender, race, class, sexual orientation, and other aspects of personhood), we examine how language is central to reproducing hierarchies as well as confronting and disrupting them.
Prerequisites: 6-hour general education composition requirement or permission of instructor
ENGL 482/582 Sports Journalism (3 Credit Hours)
This is primarily a sportswriting course in which students are introduced to various types and styles of sports stories that are representative of sports journalism as practiced in newspapers and magazines.  The course also explores the role of sports in American society.
Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in ENGL 110C and ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C
ENGL 483W/583 Reporting and News Writing II (3 Credit Hours)
Designed to familiarize students with the fundamentals of beat reporting and its practice in the multi-media environment of 'converged' newsrooms. The course emphatically focuses on writing but also provides instruction on how the tools and techniques of multimedia platforms are used to enhance storytelling.  Emphasis is also placed on accessing information through web-based resources and government documents. This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in ENGL 110C and ENGL 211C ; ENGL 380 or permission of instructor
ENGL 484/584 Feature Story Writing (3 Credit Hours)
Course includes discussion and practice of writing a variety of newspaper and magazine feature stories.  Students will write and critique stories on people, places, businesses, trends, and issues.  Assistance is given in the marketing of manuscripts.
Prerequisites: Nine semester hours in English
ENGL 485W/585 Editorial and Persuasive Writing (3 Credit Hours)
A study of the practice and function of writing editorials, commentary, reviews and columns for newspapers and online media.  Lectures will focus on the techniques of crafting a persuasive argument, content analyses of Pulitzer Prize-winning editorials and columns, and guest lectures by newspaper editorial writers.  This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in ENGL 110C and ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C ; ENGL 380
ENGL 486/586 Media Law and Ethics (3 Credit Hours)
Designed to introduce students to components of communication law that may affect the professional writer or broadcaster.  Topics include defamation, constitutional constraints, freedom of information, privacy, copyright, and telecommunications law.  Ethical issues relating to the mass media will also be examined.
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
ENGL 487 Television News Production Workshop (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to introduce students to the reporting, writing, and production of a television news program. Students will learn how to create a 30-minute news program from the framing of story ideas and news gathering to shooting and editing video along with the production process involved in recording a live news broadcast. Each student will spend time both in front of and behind the video and television studio cameras. The goal of this course is to produce weekly news broadcasts. In doing so, students will alternately assume the roles of reporter, writer, producer, director, anchor, photojournalist, technician, and more. Using the campus and surrounding neighborhoods as our news universe, students will report news and feature stories that impact the University and its neighbors.
Prerequisites: ENGL 380 or ENGL 382 or COMM 271 or THEA 271
ENGL 490/590 Professionalization in English (1-3 Credit Hours)
Advanced study of career opportunities and industry trends across a variety of fields, with a focus on reflection, synthesis, and professional development. Students will prepare a major project—as well as materials for career or educational advancement—and will discuss the nature, purpose, and value of an English degree.
Prerequisites: Senior standing in English
ENGL 492/592 Modern World Drama (3 Credit Hours)
A comparative study of selected major dramatic works of the world, featuring texts drawn from a range of cultures from around the globe. The course will begin in the late nineteenth century and continue to the present. Works written in languages other than English will be read in translation.
Prerequisites: One 300-level English course or permission of instructor and a grade of C or better in in one of the following: ENGL 211C , ENGL 221C, or ENGL 231C
ENGL 493/593 Contemporary World Literature (3 Credit Hours)
Fiction, poetry, and plays written during the last fifty years in nations throughout the world. Most texts will have been written originally in languages other than English. The course will focus on a comparative study of works produced in a variety of cultural contexts, and will explore a range of approaches to defining or circumscribing world literature.
Prerequisites: One 300-level English course or permission of instructor and a grade of C or better in in one of the following: ENGL 211C , ENGL 221C, or ENGL 231C
ENGL 494 Entrepreneurship in English Studies (3 Credit Hours)
This course will broach the theoretical and practical questions of how entrepreneurship intersects with English Studies. Conceived of as a studio course, it is designed to teach students a hands-on methodology through which they can translate disciplinary theory and knowledge into real-world outcomes. This course will teach students how academic knowledge can lead to transformations, innovations, and solutions to different types of problems.
Prerequisites: Grade of C or better ENGL 110C and ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C
ENGL 495/595 Topics in English (1-3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics designed to permit small groups of qualified students to work on subjects of mutual interest which, because of their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly.  These courses will appear in the course schedule and will be more fully described in information distributed to all academic advisors.
Prerequisites: One 300-level English course or permission of instructor and a grade of C or better in in one of the following: ENGL 211C , ENGL 221C, or ENGL 231C
ENGL 496/596 Topics in English (1-3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics designed to permit small groups of qualified students to work on subjects of mutual interest which, because of their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly.  These courses will appear in the course schedule and will be more fully described in information distributed to all academic advisors.
Prerequisites: Three semester hours in literature
ENGL 497 Tutorial Work in Special Topics in English (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent study in literature, writing, or linguistics according to a program of reading and/or writing designed under the direction of an instructor.
Prerequisites: Senior standing and approval of the chair of the Department of English
ENGL 498 Tutorial Work in Special Topics in English (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent study in literature, writing, or linguistics according to a program of reading and/or writing designed under the direction of an instructor.
Prerequisites: Senior standing and approval of the chair of the Department of English
Search catalog
