Women's and Gender Studies (WGS)
WGS 500 History of U.S. Women's Activism (3 Credit Hours)
This course historicizes U.S. women's social, political, and rhetorical activism over the last 200 years, tracing their entry into and shaping force upon public life. The course examines the development of women's activism in the nineteenth century, the twentieth-century women's (or feminist) movement, and its current status, particularly in relation to postfeminism and a 'third' wave.
Prerequisites: WGS 201S
WGS 501 Women: A Global Perspective (3 Credit Hours)
An analysis of the global forces that impact women's lives throughout the world. Particular emphasis is placed on the status of women in the developing world, international institutions that protect women's rights, and efforts to promote gender equality worldwide.
Prerequisites: WGS 201S and a grade of C or better in ENGL 211C or ENGL 231C
WGS 502 Feminisms and Sexualities (3 Credit Hours)
This course will examine feminist approaches to the subject of sexuality in the twentieth and twenty-first centuries. The course examines theorizations of sexuality, such as radical, critical race, and transnational feminisms, queer theory, and trans studies. Key questions will be: how have feminists theorized sexualities? What does sexuality have to do with feminist studies or practices? How do other identities, such as race and class, inform sexuality?
Prerequisites: WGS 201S , WGS 390T , or instructor approval
WGS 505 Gender and Media (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines media-based sites of knowledge production using a feminist approach, in order to imagine new and more complex ways to think about media rhetorics; celebrity culture; digital media; and the politics of representation. Key questions will be: What roles do media play in shaping social movements? What are the promises and pitfalls of activist interventions in the realm of commercial culture? In what ways might we complicate narratives of co-optation or selling out? The course explores these questions using an intersectional lens attentive to the complex interconnections of race, class, gender, and sexuality. Case studies will include national, international, and transnational media events.
Prerequisites: WGS 201S , WGS 390T , or instructor approval
WGS 506 Gender, Fashion & the Body (3 Credit Hours)
This interdisciplinary class explores the body as a canvas for both history and the future of our concept of individualism. Students will have the opportunity to reflect not only on their own understanding of the body but also that of the body across a variety of experiences. Students will complete auto-ethnographic essays and a course paper on the body relating to her/his/their academic research interests.
Prerequisites: WGS 201S
WGS 510 Sexing the Body (3 Credit Hours)
This course will explore the spectrum of what it means when we consider humans to exist in a gendered and sexed world. Students will critique their own preconceived notions of sex, probe issues of equality and social justice, and discuss what these questions mean both in the United States and globally. The course will culminate with a restructuring of how we understand the ways in which we define sex, sexuality, and sexual practice, taking into consideration how our own identities are impacted by culture and society.
Prerequisites: WGS 201S
WGS 515 Migration and Refugee Studies (3 Credit Hours)
This course explores the international context of refugees and migrants from a humanitarian perspective. Global conditions that lead to forced migration are analyzed to inform a larger understanding of human displacement. The course works directly with refugee resettlement organizations at the national and local levels.
WGS 560 Feminist and Queer Theory (3 Credit Hours)
This course will examine feminist and queer theories, specifically intersectional, transnational, and radical perspectives. It explores how feminist and queer scholars approach research, writing, and knowledge production, and applies these insights to students’ own interests. The course analyzes how feminist and queer scholars have written about storytelling, the body, and desire, and links these discussions to how to produce positive social change in our world. This course is fundamentally interdisciplinary; students are encouraged to make connections between the course materials, their research interests, and other fields of study. This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: WGS 201S or WGS 302W and a grade of C or better in ENGL 211C or ENGL 231C
WGS 570 Feminist Research Methods (3 Credit Hours)
This course explores the ethics, practice, and multiple forms of conducting feminist research. Narrative research methods are practiced through hands-on oral herstory assignments. Throughout the course, the process of knowledge construction is interrogated from a feminist perspective.
WGS 595 Topics in Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies (3 Credit Hours)
Advanced seminars on selected topics. The subject matter is usually be interdisciplinary and aligns with faculty teaching and research strengths.
WGS 596 Topics in Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies (3 Credit Hours)
Advanced seminars on selected topics. The subject matter is usually interdisciplinary and aligns with faculty teaching and research strengths.
Prerequisites: WGS 201S or instructor approval
WGS 597 Independent Study (1-6 Credit Hours)
Independent study of an interdisciplinary topic in Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies, or a reading plus internship project to be selected under the direction of a faculty member. Conferences and papers as appropriate.
Prerequisites: WGS 201S and approval of instructor and chair of the department
WGS 598 Independent Study (1-6 Credit Hours)
Independent study of an interdisciplinary topic in Women’s, Gender, and Sexuality Studies, or a reading plus internship project to be selected under the direction of a faculty member. Conferences and papers as appropriate.
Prerequisites: WGS 201S and approval of instructor and chair of department
WGS 668 Internship (3-6 Credit Hours)
Course provides an opportunity to gain experience working in organizations and government agencies. Students' work should engage with women's issues at the local, regional, national, and/or global levels. Students must work for at least 50 hours per course credit.
Prerequisites: Graduate standing and instructor approval required
WGS 695 Topics in Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies (3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics which permit small groups of qualified students to work on subjects of mutual interest under the direction on an instructor. Courses may not be offered regularly; when offered courses appear in the course schedule and are more fully described in information distributed to advisors.
WGS 696 Topics in Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies (1-3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of topics which permit small groups of qualified students to work on subjects of mutual interest under the direction of an instructor. Courses may not be offered regularly; when offered, courses appear in the course schedule and are more fully described in information distributed to advisors.
WGS 697 Independent Study (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent study of an interdisciplinary women's studies topics to be selected under the direction of a women's studies faculty member. Conferences and papers as appropriate.
Prerequisites: Graduate standing
WGS 698 Independent Study (3 Credit Hours)
Independent study of an interdisciplinary women's studies topics to be selected under the direction of a women's studies faculty member. Conferences and papers as appropriate.
Prerequisites: Graduate standing
WGS 715 Advanced Migration and Refugee Studies (3 Credit Hours)
This seminar course explores the international context of refugees and migrants from a humanitarian perspective.  Global conditions that lead to forced migration are analyzed to inform a larger understanding of human displacement. Through analysis at the community, national, and international levels, participants will gain both in-depth content on this contemporary human rights topic and tools for application in a number of fields.
WGS 795 Topics in Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies (3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics that permit small groups of qualified students to work on subjects of mutual interest under the direction of an instructor. Courses may not be offered regularly; when offered courses appear in the course schedule and are more fully described in information distributed to advisors.
Prerequisites: Instructor approval
WGS 797 Independent Study (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent study of an interdisciplinary women’s studies topic to be selected under the direction of a women’s studies faculty member. Conferences and papers as appropriate.
Prerequisites: Graduate standing
WGS 815 Advanced Migration and Refugee Studies (3 Credit Hours)
This seminar course explores the international context of refugees and migrants from a humanitarian perspective.  Global conditions that lead to forced migration are analyzed to inform a larger understanding of human displacement. Through analysis at the community, national, and international levels, participants will gain both in-depth content on this contemporary human rights topic and tools for application in a number of fields.
WGS 895 Topics in Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies (3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics that permit small groups of qualified students to work on subjects of mutual interest under the direction of an instructor. Courses may not be offered regularly; when offered, courses appear in the course schedule and are more fully described in information distributed to advisors.
WGS 897 Independent Study (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent study of an interdisciplinary women's and gender studies topic to be selected under the direction of a women's and gender studies faculty member. Conferences and papers as appropriate.
Prerequisites: Doctoral standing
