Additional Requirements
Lindsay Usher, PhD, Graduate Program Director
This program is designed to prepare students and practitioners for advanced study in the concepts, theories, research, and management of park, recreation and tourism services. Course work (30 credit hours) is designed to develop students' abilities to analyze research findings, conduct research in the field, and apply empirical data to practice and management. The program combines social science and management concepts and theories with applied problem-solving techniques specific to parks, recreation and tourism.
Admission
Admission and Entrance Requirements
Applicants for the MS in Park, Recreation and Tourism Studies are required to submit credentials for consideration through the Office of Graduate Admissions at Old Dominion University. Students applying for admission with regular status must have:
A completed online application via www.odu.edu/admission/graduate
A baccalaureate degree from a regionally-accredited institution or an equivalent degree from a foreign institution
2.8 cumulative GPA or higher (on a 4.0 scale ) *
3.0 GPA or higher in the undergraduate major *
A combined GRE score of 291 or higher (verbal and quantitative sections) *
Personal essay (no more than two pages) that describes: 1) previous professional experience in the PRT field, 2) educational career goals, 3) areas of research interest, 4) specific faculty member with whom student wants to study, 5) why student should be admitted, and 6) (if applicable) the specific graduate assistantship for which student wishes to be considered (and why they would be a good fit for that assistantship).
Three letters of recommendation (from former professors or employers)
Current copy of résumé
Transcripts from all prior postsecondary institutions
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) score of 550 on the paper-based test (or 79-80 on the iBT) for non-native English speakers
* Students who have a low GPA or a low GRE score may be considered for admission with provisional status.
* The program admissions committee will consider GRE/GMAT waiver requests for high potential candidates by considering application elements that demonstrate the ability to take on the rigor of graduate level studies. A request for waiver does not guarantee that a waiver will be granted.
Curriculum
Four required courses focus on areas in which the faculty believe each park, recreation and tourism graduate must be competent. Two research courses are required of all students, including one in applied statistics and the other in research methods. One elective in the PRTS program is required. Depending on the Capstone Experience selected, students must also take one or two electives in other programs or departments. Lastly, students must choose from one of two Capstone Experiences — a 6-credit hour thesis (Thesis Option), or a 3-credit hour research project (Research Project Option).  The Thesis Option requires the successful defense of a thesis. The Research Project Option requires successful completion of a comprehensive examination covering the four required PRTS core courses. The specific courses in the curriculum are as follows:
Course List
