Graduate Courses
IDS 300W Interdisciplinary Theory and Concepts (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of the history, concepts and application of interdisciplinary study.  This course includes an analysis of similarities and differences in academic disciplines and the application of interdisciplinary approaches to a specific topic of study.  This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: a grade of C or better in ENGL 211C , ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C
IDS 307T Digital Writing (3 Credit Hours)
This course introduces students to issues of writing in various digital environments like web pages, email, blogs, wikis, and discussion boards. It also introduces fundamentals of hypertext authoring, digital and visual rhetoric, and image manipulation.
Prerequisites: ENGL 110C and ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C
IDS 368 Internship in Interdisciplinary Studies (1-6 Credit Hours)
An opportunity to integrate service and applied learning experience with interdisciplinary perspectives.
Prerequisites: junior standing and permission of individualized interdisciplinary studies program coordinator
IDS 369 Internship in Sustainability and Conservation Leadership (3-6 Credit Hours)
As part of the Sustainability and Conservation Leadership minor, this graded internship will provide an opportunity to integrate service and applied learning experience with interdisciplinary perspectives. 300 hours are required for the 3-credit option, and 600 hours are required for the 6-credit option.
IDS 397 Independent Study (1-6 Credit Hours)
IDS 398 Independent Study (1-6 Credit Hours)
IDS 400/500 Study Abroad (0 Credit Hours)
IDS 466W Introduction to Mitigation and Adaptation Studies (3 Credit Hours)
Students will be introduced to the science underpinning mitigation of human-induced changes in the Earth system, including but not limited to climate change and sea level rise, and adaptation to the impacts of these changes. The course will cover the environmental hazards and the opportunities and limitations for conservation, mitigation and adaptation. This is a writing intensive course. Cross listed with BIOL 466W and OEAS 466W .
Prerequisites: BIOL 291 or permission of instructor
IDS 467 Sustainability Leadership (3 Credit Hours)
In this class, students will discover what makes a leader for sustainability. They will consider a range of global and local crises from a leadership point of view in the context of sustainability science, which addresses the development of communities in a rapidly changing social, economic, and environmental system-of-systems environment. The course will be based on taking a problem-motivated and solution-focused approach to the challenges considered. The course includes a service learning project focusing on a leadership experience in solving a real-world environmental problem.
Prerequisites: BIOL 466W or OEAS 466W or IDS 466W
IDS 493 IDS Electronic Portfolio Project (3 Credit Hours)
The preparation of an electronic portfolio integrating the student's academic study, work experiences, skill identification and work products.  Alternative formats are used for varying uses of the portfolio.
Prerequisites: IDS 300W or permission of the instructor and senior standing
IDS 494 Entrepreneurship in Interdisciplinary Studies (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to help students enhance their personal and professional development through innovation guided by faculty members and professionals. It offers students an opportunity to integrate disciplinary theory and knowledge through developing a nonprofit program, product, business, or other initiative. The real-world experiences that entrepreneurships provide will help students understand how academic knowledge leads to transformations, innovations, and solutions to different types of problems.
Prerequisites: IDS 300W and approval of the program coordinator
IDS 495 Topics in Integrative Studies (3 Credit Hours)
Focused study of selected topics linking perspectives, research and applications from a variety of disciplines.  Emphasis is on disciplinary synthesis.
Prerequisites: IDS 300W
IDS 496/596 Topics in Interdisciplinary Studies (3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics designed to permit small groups of qualified students to work on subjects of mutual interest which, due to their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly. These courses will appear in the course schedule and will be more fully described in information distributed to all academic advisors.
Prerequisites: IDS 300W or permission of instructor
IDS 497 IDS Individualized Senior Project (3 Credit Hours)
This course is a vehicle for the execution of the senior project requirement of the Interdisciplinary Studies Program. The project will be negotiated between the student, faculty sponsors, and the program. Open only to individualized integrative studies majors.
Prerequisites: IDS 300W , permission of the instructor and an approved individualized integrative studies curriculum plan
IDS 500 Study Abroad (0 Credit Hours)
IDS 596 Topics in Interdisciplinary Studies (3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics designed to permit small groups of qualified students to work on subjects of mutual interest which, due to their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly. These courses will appear in the course schedule and will be more fully described in information distributed to all academic advisors.
Prerequisites: IDS 300W or permission of instructor
Search catalog
