Black History Month Events Highlight Connection, Community
Black History Month Events Highlight Connection, Community
January 30, 2025
By Kelsey Kendall
Old Dominion University will celebrate Black History Month during the month of February with a series of meaningful events and engagement opportunities to learn, connect, and promote community well-being and Black history. The Office of Intercultural Relations (OIR), alongside more than 15 campus partners and student organizations, is hosting about 25 events throughout the month. These include cultural, artistic, educational and wellness events that are open to the campus community.
"We are incredibly excited to celebrate Black History Month with the greater community, and it is wonderful to have the February 2025 calendar reflect events that will be hosted by campus partners as we seek to honor the rich legacies and histories of Black individuals," said Assistant Director for Black Initiatives Kendall Tate.
The University’s celebrations will start with the BHM Kickoff on Feb. 4 hosted by OIR and student organizations including the African Student Association, the Black Student Alliance, Brother2Brother, Caribso, Ebony Impact Gospel Choir and the NAACP during activity hour from 12:30 to 1:30 p.m. in South Mall at the Webb Center.
Supported by the National Endowment for the Arts Big Read initiative , the Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity is hosting an in-depth discussion of the intersection of racism and health. Dr. Gregory Hutchings, author of “Getting into Good Trouble at School,” will lead the community conversation, titled “Post Traumatic Racism Disorder: Looking at the Health Crisis of Racism and How Belonging Can Bring About Health Equity.” This event will be held at Chartway Arena at 6:30 p.m. on Feb. 6.
Additionally, students are welcome to join OIR and Student Engagement and Traditions on a trip to the Smithsonian National Museum of African American History and Culture in Washington, D.C., Feb. 8, for a day trip. It is an opportunity for students to explore and learn about the histories and contributions of African Americans.
Celebrating ODU’s Black community, “Our Crowns are Strengthened: Connecting in Community” will be held from 12:30 to 1:30 p.m. Feb. 13 at the North Cafe in Webb Center. Black faculty, staff and students are encouraged to connect and build community during this networking event.
There are experiences for the foodies, as well. Throughout the month, OIR and Monarch Dining are partnering to share special chef spotlights. The first will be Chef Dillon Smart’s Chicken Cook-Up Rice Bowl on Feb. 4 from 12 to 2 p.m. in Broderick Dining Commons. Other Black History Month Cafés will feature Chef Terrance Murphy’s White Chocolate Banana Pudding on Feb. 11 in the Broderick Dining Commons Rotunda, Chef Maya Feller’s Catfish Escovitch plate on Feb. 18 in the Rogers Riverside Café and Chef Brent Loving’s Peri Peri deconstructed chicken sandwich with Jollof rice on Feb. 25 in the Broderick Dining Commons Rotunda for people to sample.
"Black History Month is a time of celebration, connection and community and we look forward to celebrating," Tate said.
A full list of the events and further information is available on the OIR website .
