No Undergraduate courses found.
TLCI 668 Internship in Curriculum and Instruction (3 Credit Hours)
Designed in consultation with advisor to provide in-depth experience in a school or community setting in which to enact a guided project on a topic of interest.
TLCI 700 Social/Emotional Aspects of Child Development (3 Credit Hours)
The emphasis of this course is on the theoretical approaches to the social/emotional development of the child that include the psychodynamic, humanistic, cognitive, behavioral, and social learning models as applied to responsive practices that promote the healthy emotional wellbeing of children.
TLCI 702 Historical and Contemporary Perspectives on Education (3 Credit Hours)
The present educational system, its social impact and future implications are viewed in historical, philosophical, and sociological perspectives. Special attention is given to technology, research, multicultural education/equity and leadership.
TLCI 703 Theoretical Perspectives in Curriculum and Instruction (3 Credit Hours)
This course introduces a range of theoretical perspectives and epistemologies in the field of curriculum and instruction.  Students will gain strategies for critical reading, scholarly writing, and identify areas for prospective inquiry.
TLCI 704 Instruction Theories and Models (3 Credit Hours)
Students will investigate a range of instructional theories and design theories in terms of learning domains and pedagogical approaches to the teaching/learning process in a variety of educational settings.  Students will utilize a systematic design process grounded in theories and research to propose/develop instruction for specific learning goals related to their own professional situations.
TLCI 705 Critical Issues in Curriculum Research (3 Credit Hours)
Explores the relationship between the historical, philosophical, and sociopolitical influence on curriculum development and evaluation.  Historical and cultural approaches to designing and implementing curricular models, curriculum reform, and understanding the politics of conceptualizing the curriculum process are highlighted. Major issues concerning educational curriculum reform are addressed and reviewed.
Prerequisites: graduate standing
TLCI 722 Curriculum Seminar in Content Areas (3 Credit Hours)
Investigates the role and nature of the curriculum for particular subject-matter specialties - e.g., math, social studies, science, English, school librarianship, reading, etc. Objectives are tailored to specific content areas.
Prerequisites: graduate standing
TLCI 726 Advanced Supervision of Reading Programs (3 Credit Hours)
Explores various models of supervision and relates them to the administration and supervision of reading programs.  Also prepares the prospective administrator/supervisor to make decisions relative to the methods and materials used to teach reading.
TLCI 727 Advanced Practicum in Reading (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed for teachers having completed the initial reading practicum.  Its focus is on the refinement and further exploration of ways to work with students experiencing reading difficulties.  Both group and individual tutoring experiences will be provided.  Ways will be explored to encourage involvement in existing educational programs and schools.
TLCI 728 Contemporary Issues in Literacy Research (3 Credit Hours)
Directed study of current topics of interest to students involved in literacy research.  Topics to include emergent literacy assessment, adult literacy programs, and other areas of investigation.  Students will be required to prepare a scholarly paper reporting results for publication.
Prerequisites: M.S.Ed. in Reading Education
TLCI 731 Instructional Technology Trends in Curriculum and Instruction (3 Credit Hours)
Examines selected issues and trends involving the use of technology in curriculum and instruction.  Students develop a critical awareness of contemporary technology, an understanding of current research regarding the successful implementation of technology in curriculum and instruction, and strategies for using new technology in the future.
TLCI 735 Participatory Research: Theory and Methods (3 Credit Hours)
This course will explore theoretical and methodological orientations towards conducting research with youth and adults. Students will focus on ethical, political, and pedagogical considerations that arise in employing participatory practices, explore methods for listening and representing participant voice, and consider implications for policy and practice
TLCI 736 Reconceptualizing Theory and Practice for Work with Children and Families (3 Credit Hours)
This graduate seminar explores post-structural theories as they relate to understandings about young children, families, and education. The focus is on intersections of race, class, gender, and age as potential constructs of how thought and action are organized and the political, historical, and economic contexts that contribute to such discourses. Students will consider theory, research and practices in readings, discussions and class assignments.
TLCI 740 Contemporary Perspectives in Early Literacy (3 Credit Hours)
This graduate seminar explores perspectives on early literacy that draw from sociocultural, postmodern, and post-structural theories. Viewing literacy as a social practice, students will explore children’s literacy with an emphasis on children’s agency and their roles as active producers of meaning. Students will be asked to critically examine early literacy research and practice to contribute to rich understandings of diverse learning needs across social, economic, and multilingual contexts.
TLCI 741 Change Issues in Curriculum and Instruction (3 Credit Hours)
Explores questions and issues related to the evolving nature of curriculum and instruction and the design of the contemporary curriculum.  Through readings and projects, students will examine new discoveries in research and technology, the effect of these and other changes on education, and the challenges of life-long learning as an influence on change.
Prerequisites: graduate standing
TLCI 788 Seminar in the Multicultural Environment (3 Credit Hours)
Explores topics related to the cultural characteristics of ethnically diverse populations and how these diverse populations and characteristics interact with social, political and economic institutions and the dominant culture to create the contemporary environment.
TLCI 795 Topics in Education (1-3 Credit Hours)
Provides opportunities for doctoral students to explore topics related to curriculum, instructional strategies, and evaluation.
TLCI 797 Independent Study (1-3 Credit Hours)
Hours to be arranged. Provides opportunities for the doctoral student to do independent research in an area of his/her particular interests and needs.
TLCI 800 Social/Emotional Aspects of Child Development (3 Credit Hours)
The emphasis of this course is on the theoretical approaches to the social/emotional development of the child that include the psychodynamic, humanistic, cognitive, behavioral, and social learning models as applied to responsive practices that promote the healthy emotional wellbeing of children.
TLCI 802 Historical and Contemporary Perspectives on Education (3 Credit Hours)
The present educational system, its social impact and future implications are viewed in historical, philosophical, and sociological perspectives. Special attention is given to technology, research, multicultural education/equity and leadership.
TLCI 803 Theoretical Perspectives in Curriculum and Instruction (3 Credit Hours)
This course introduces a range of theoretical perspectives and epistemologies in the field of curriculum and instruction.  Students will gain strategies for critical reading, scholarly writing, and identify areas for prospective inquiry.
TLCI 804 Instruction Theories and Models (3 Credit Hours)
Students will investigate a range of instructional theories and design theories in terms of learning domains and pedagogical approaches to the teaching/learning process in a variety of educational settings.  Students will utilize a systematic design process grounded in theories and research to propose/develop instruction for specific learning goals related to their own professional situations.
TLCI 805 Critical Issues in Curriculum Research (3 Credit Hours)
Explores the relationship between the historical, philosophical, and sociopolitical influence on curriculum development and evaluation.  Historical and cultural approaches to designing and implementing curricular models, curriculum reform, and understanding the politics of conceptualizing the curriculum process are highlighted. Major issues concerning educational curriculum reform are addressed and reviewed.
Prerequisites: graduate standing
TLCI 808 Critical Sociocultural Theories of Learning (3 Credit Hours)
This course will establish a theoretical lens by which students will understand learning as socially and culturally constituted and apply this foundation to literacy acquisition and learning.
Prerequisites: Admission to the Curriculum and Instruction doctoral program
TLCI 809 Youth Ideology, Culture and Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course will draw on sociocultural perspectives to provide an empirical, historical, and theoretical examination of issues that impact youth in societies characterized by structural inequalities. These inequalities may be based on class, race, ethnicity, and sexual/gendered relations of dominance and subordination. Exploration through various texts from several academic disciplines will enable course participants to analyze the intersection of education, social change, and youth development in the contexts of self-discovery, identity, culture, belonging, citizenship, participation, and activism.
TLCI 814 Qualitative Research Design in Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course concentrates on the theoretical underpinnings of qualitative research, methodology and methods including identification of ways to collect and analyze qualitative data; examination of ethical issues; development of proposals; and writing up studies.
TLCI 815 Advanced Qualitative Research (3 Credit Hours)
This advanced qualitative course is an introduction to emerging research approaches and alternative data collection methods and analyses in education, counseling and other related disciplines. Content addressed includes visual and audio research, historical movements in qualitative research, critical theory, feminism, queer theory, ethnomethodology, autoethnography, content analysis, and mixed methods research.
Prerequisites: TLCI 814
TLCI 828 Contemporary Issues in Literacy Research (3 Credit Hours)
Directed study of current topics of interest to students involved in literacy research.  Topics to include emergent literacy assessment, adult literacy programs, and other areas of investigation.  Students will be required to prepare a scholarly paper reporting results for publication.
Prerequisites: M.S.Ed. in Reading Education
TLCI 831 Instructional Technology Trends in Curriculum and Instruction (3 Credit Hours)
Examines selected issues and trends involving the use of technology in curriculum and instruction.  Students develop a critical awareness of contemporary technology, an understanding of current research regarding the successful implementation of technology in curriculum and instruction, and strategies for using new technology in the future.
TLCI 835 Participatory Research: Theory and Methods (3 Credit Hours)
This course will explore theoretical and methodological orientations towards conducting research with youth and adults. Students will focus on ethical, political, and pedagogical considerations that arise in employing participatory practices, explore methods for listening and representing participant voice, and consider implications for policy and practice
TLCI 836 Reconceptualizing Theory and Practice for Work with Children and Families (3 Credit Hours)
This graduate seminar explores post-structural theories as they relate to understandings about young children, families, and education. The focus is on intersections of race, class, gender, and age as potential constructs of how thought and action are organized and the political, historical, and economic contexts that contribute to such discourses. Students will consider theory, research and practices in readings, discussions and class assignments.
TLCI 840 Contemporary Perspectives in Early Literacy (3 Credit Hours)
This graduate seminar explores perspectives on early literacy that draw from sociocultural, postmodern, and post-structural theories. Viewing literacy as a social practice, students will explore children’s literacy with an emphasis on children’s agency and their roles as active producers of meaning. Students will be asked to critically examine early literacy research and practice to contribute to rich understandings of diverse learning needs across social, economic, and multilingual contexts.
Pre- or corequisite: TLCI 740
TLCI 845 Concepts and Contexts in School Librarianship (3 Credit Hours)
Will introduce candidates to the broad landscape of school librarianship and its relationship to the greater library and information profession. Includes a critical examination of benchmarks and key concepts tied to literacies, information science, and technical innovation.
TLCI 861 Ethnographic Research and Narrative & Historical Research Methods and Design (3 Credit Hours)
In this advanced qualitative research course, students will focus on ethnographic methods such as ethnography, ethnomethodology, and autoethnomethodology. Students will also learn about participatory research methods. The course will examine narrative and historical research approaches including biography and autobiography.
Prerequisites: TLCI 815
TLCI 862 Critical and Indigenous Research Methods and Design (3 Credit Hours)
In this advanced qualitative methods course, students will explore readings related to critical and indigenous research, methodologies and paradigms as well as engage in activities to decolonize traditional research approaches with specific groups. This course refers to indigenous peoples as individuals and groups belonging to developing or underdeveloped regions nationally or internationally.
Prerequisites: TLCI 815
TLCI 863 Emerging Qualitative Research Methods (3 Credit Hours)
This advanced qualitative research course examines emerging and lesser known qualitative research methods such as self-study, portraiture, arts-based research, photovoice, rhizomatic analysis and critical policy analysis.
Prerequisites: TLCI 815
TLCI 864 Case Study, Grounded Theory, & Phenomenological Research Methods & Design (3 Credit Hours)
This advanced qualitative research course examines the intricacies of case study methods. It also delves into the various qualitative research methods surrounding experience and theory formation such as Grounded Theory, Phenomenology, Heuristic Inquiry and Consensual Qualitative Research.
Prerequisites: TLCI 815
TLCI 865 Independent Qualitative Research (3 Credit Hours)
This capstone course involves the student developing and completing an original qualitative research project independent from the dissertation.
Prerequisites: TLCI 815
TLCI 868 Internship: Early Childhood (3 Credit Hours)
Independent research study allows the student to explore a topic of interest under the close supervision of a faculty member. The coursework may include directed readings, applied independent investigations - collaboration with a faculty member with a research project or carrying out an independent research project - and other activities deemed appropriate including grant proposal writing or programmatic evaluation work. Regardless of the nature of the experience, the work must culminate in a formal paper suitable for inclusion in a published research manuscript.
TLCI 875 Research and Practice in Teacher Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides experiences that examine the theoretical and practical foundations of research and practice in teacher education. The course explores various facets of field- and university-based teacher education practices, which include but are not limited to school-university partnerships, mentor teaching and supervision of teacher candidates, and teaching education coursework. Students also consider the development of teacher educator identity, the benefits of collaborative inquiry, and research methods used to investigate teacher education learning and practice.
TLCI 876 Grant Writing (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides students with an applied introduction to proposal and grant writing. Doctoral students who successfully complete the course will be prepared to seek external funding to support their continuing graduate studies and to support their future success as academics.
TLCI 888 Seminar in the Multicultural Environment (3 Credit Hours)
Explores topics related to the cultural characteristics of ethnically diverse populations and how these diverse populations and characteristics interact with social, political and economic institutions and the dominant culture to create the contemporary environment.
TLCI 890 Seminar in Academic Writing (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides a guide through the process of academic writing, following practices for manuscript publication and dissertation writing. Peer feedback and individualized writing are hallmarks of the course. This course provides students with the knowledge and skills to become better academic writers through practice of successful strategies and habits related to the writing process as well as examinations of exemplars.
TLCI 895 Topics in Education (1-3 Credit Hours)
Provides opportunities for doctoral students to explore topics related to curriculum, instructional strategies, and evaluation.
TLCI 897 Independent Study (1-3 Credit Hours)
Hours to be arranged. Provides opportunities for the doctoral student to do independent research in an area of his/her particular interests and needs.
TLCI 899 Dissertation (1-12 Credit Hours)
Preparation of dissertation.
Prerequisites: graduate standing, successful completion of candidacy exam and permission of the instructor
TLCI 999 Doctoral Graduate Credit (1 Credit Hour)
This course is a pass/fail course doctoral students may take to maintain active status after successfully passing the candidacy examination.  All doctoral students are required to be registered for at least one graduate credit hour every semester until their graduation.
Search catalog
