CSD - Communication Sciences and Disorders
CSD - Communication Sciences and Disorders
Graduate Courses
CSD 350 Survey in Communication Disorders (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to acquaint students with the discipline of speech-language pathology and provide an introduction to developmental and acquired disorders of speech and language.
Prerequisites: Permission of instructor
CSD 351 Anatomy of Speech, Language, and Swallowing (3 Credit Hours)
Study of the psycholinguistic, acoustic, anatomical, and physiological aspects of speech and language, as well as anatomical and physiological aspects of swallowing.
Prerequisites: permission of the instructor
CSD 352 Phonetics (3 Credit Hours)
Study of the production and classification of sounds in American English; practice in phonetic transcription.
Prerequisites: permission of the instructor
CSD 446 Neural Bases of Communication and Swallowing Disorders (3 Credit Hours)
The content of this course focuses upon the neurological bases of speech, language, and swallowing, and communication and swallowing disorders that result from acquired neuropathologies affecting the central and peripheral nervous system.
Prerequisites: Grade of C- or better in CSD 350 and CSD 351
CSD 447 Introduction to Language Disorders in Children (3 Credit Hours)
This course presents an introduction to the various language disorders manifested by children and adolescents with a focus on characteristics, etiologies and general intervention approaches.
Prerequisites: a grade of C- or higher in CSD 453
Pre- or corequisite: ENGL 370 or ENGL 350
CSD 449W/549 Clinical Observation and Writing in Communication Sciences and Disorders (3 Credit Hours)
Speech-language pathology/audiology students will learn practical and foundational clinical skills necessary for deconstructing speech-language pathology treatment sessions, for identifying important parts-of-speech, and for completing disciplinary writing tasks. Objectives in this class are met using guided observations. This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: Grade of C or better in ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C
Pre- or corequisite: Senior standing and a grade of C- or better in CSD 447
CSD 451/551 Introduction to Speech Sound Disorders (3 Credit Hours)
This course emphasizes causes, identification, and treatment of speech sound disorders.
Pre- or corequisite: CSD 352
CSD 452 Introduction to Voice and Fluency Disorders (3 Credit Hours)
This content of this course focuses upon the basic tenets related to fluency and voice disorders. The purpose is to introduce students to the basic terminology, concepts of the role of articulation, phonation, and respiration as they relate to both fluency and voice disorders. Diagnosing and treating fluency and voice disorders will be discussed.
Prerequisites: Grade of C- or better in CSD 351
CSD 453/553 Speech and Language Development (3 Credit Hours)
This course reviews speech and language development from the perspective of the speech-language pathologist.
Prerequisites: Grade of C- or better in CSD 350
CSD 458/558 Speech and Hearing Science (3 Credit Hours)
The content of this course focuses upon basic acoustics, speech acoustics, psychoacoustics, speech perception, and clinical laboratory instrumentation.  The course is designed to provide fundamental information regarding normal and abnormal aspects of speech and hearing processes.
Prerequisites: Grade of C- or better in CSD 460
CSD 460/560 Hearing Disorders and Basic Audiometry (3 Credit Hours)
A study of the physics of sound, anatomy, and physiology of the human ear, basic audiometry and hearing disorders.
Prerequisites: Permission of instructor
CSD 461/561 Aural Rehabilitation I (3 Credit Hours)
A study of audiological findings and the implications for hearing therapy; speech and language development of the deaf.
Prerequisites: Grade of C- or better in CSD 460
CSD 465 Sign Language and Deaf Culture I (3 Credit Hours)
Study of the grammatical structure and use of American sign language; exposure to ideals and culture of the deaf community. (This course does not satisfy the general education foreign language skills requirement.)
Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor
CSD 466 Sign Language and Deaf Culture II (3 Credit Hours)
Advanced studies of the grammar and symbols of American Sign Language, and appreciation for concepts and issues surrounding deaf culture. (This course does not fulfill the general education foreign language requirement.)
Prerequisites: Grade of C- or higher in CSD 465
CSD 469 Practicum in Speech-Language Pathology (3 Credit Hours)
The clinical practicum in speech-language pathology takes place off campus, giving students the opportunity to earn clinical hours with an ASHA-certified speech-language pathologist in their final semester. The practicum involves 90 hours, divided between direct and indirect clinical services. A background check is required before students can be placed at the practicum site. Students are required to have a GPA in the major of 3.25 or higher.
Prerequisites: A grade of B- or better in CSD 447 and CSD 451 ; senior standing
Pre- or corequisite: CSD 449W
CSD 497/597 Independent Study in Communication Sciences and Disorders (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent study of special topics in communication sciences and disorders.
Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor
CSD 498 Directed Research in Speech-Language Pathology (1-6 Credit Hours)
Supervised research on a specific problem in speech-language pathology. Regular meetings with faculty and a written/oral report are required.
Prerequisites: permission of instructor
CSD 549 Clinical Observation and Writing in Communication Sciences and Disorders (3 Credit Hours)
Speech-language pathology/audiology students will learn practical and foundational clinical skills necessary for deconstructing speech-language pathology treatment sessions, for identifying important parts-of-speech, and for completing disciplinary writing tasks. Objectives in this class are met using guided observations.
CSD 551 Introduction to Speech Sound Disorders (3 Credit Hours)
This course emphasizes causes, identification, and treatment of speech sound disorders.
Prerequisites: Permission of instructor
CSD 553 Speech and Language Development (3 Credit Hours)
This course reviews speech and language development from the perspective of the speech-language pathologist.
CSD 558 Speech and Hearing Science (3 Credit Hours)
The content of this course focuses upon basic acoustics, speech acoustics, psychoacoustics, speech perception, and clinical laboratory instrumentation.  The course is designed to provide fundamental information regarding normal and abnormal aspects of speech and hearing processes.
Prerequisites: Grade of C- or better in CSD 460 or CSD 560
CSD 560 Hearing Disorders and Basic Audiometry (3 Credit Hours)
A study of the physics of sound, anatomy, and physiology of the human ear, basic audiometry and hearing disorders.
CSD 561 Aural Rehabilitation I (3 Credit Hours)
A study of audiological findings and the implications for hearing therapy; speech and language development of the deaf.
CSD 597 Independent Study in Communication Sciences and Disorders (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent study of special topics in communication sciences and disorders.
Prerequisites: Permission of instructor
CSD 612 Evidence Based Practice and Research in Speech-Language Pathology (3 Credit Hours)
This course will provide students with a background in evidence-based clinical practice by understanding elements of quality research methods. Students will learn how to identify reputable research outcomes that influence clinical decisions in speech-language pathology.
CSD 649 Clinical Procedures in Speech-Language Pathology (3 Credit Hours)
This course teaches students basic clinical procedures and competencies in speech-language pathology with an emphasis on language sampling and identification of grammatical categories, skills required by professionals practicing in the field of speech-language pathology.
Prerequisites: Permission of instructor
CSD 651 Spoken and Written Language Disorders: School-Aged Children (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on the relationship between spoken and written language and its role in language-based learning disabilities in school-aged students. It addresses the characteristics of language, reading, and spelling impairments; the subtypes of these disorders; and the different assessment and intervention approaches used with them.
Prerequisites: CSD 453 or CSD 553 or permission of the instructor
CSD 652 Speech Sound Disorders (3 Credit Hours)
The emphasis of this course is clinical assessment and intervention for phonology and articulation skills that can be disrupted in speech sound disorders including motor speech disorders.
Prerequisites: CSD 551
CSD 653 Language Disorders: Birth to Five Years (3 Credit Hours)
An advanced study of the diagnosis and intervention for infants and preschoolers with suspected language disorders arising from a variety of etiologies. This course has a particular emphasis on assessment and intervention using principles of evidence-based practice.
Prerequisites: CSD 453 / CSD 553 or permission of instructor
CSD 655 Voice and Resonance Disorders (2 Credit Hours)
This course emphasizes the current etiological theories, research, diagnostic procedures, and therapeutic techniques related to voice and resonance disorders.  Students will study terminology and concepts related to the resonance, phonation, and respiration systems underlying voice production.
Prerequisites: Permission of instructor
CSD 656 Theories and Therapies in Stuttering (2 Credit Hours)
This course emphasizes current etiological theories, research, diagnostic procedures and therapeutic techniques related to stuttering.
Prerequisites: Permission of instructor
CSD 657 Aphasia (3 Credit Hours)
The objective of this course is to investigate the etiologies, communicative disorders, diagnostic methods and therapeutic techniques related to aphasia, dyslexia and dysgraphia related to acquired neurologic conditions.
CSD 658 Swallowing Disorders (3 Credit Hours)
This course reviews the structures and neural bases of swallowing, common etiologies that cause dysphagia, and clinical techniques used in assessment and management of swallowing disorders in pediatric and adult populations.
CSD 659 Augmentative and Alternative Communication Disorders (3 Credit Hours)
This course will identify populations that may benefit from Augmentative and Alternative Communication Disorders (AAC), describe the assessment process relative to AAC and tenets of intervention, provide information regarding legal issues related to AAC, and demonstrate how to acquire and use AAC instrumentation.
Prerequisites: Permission of instructor
CSD 660 Procedures in Audiology (3 Credit Hours)
Advanced study of the physics of sound, anatomy, and physiology of audition, hearing disorders, and audiometric procedures, providing knowledge and skills necessary for a speech-language pathologist.
CSD 662 Cognitive-Communication Disorders (3 Credit Hours)
The objective of this course is to investigate the etiologies, cognitive impairments, communication manifestations, diagnostic methods and therapeutic techniques related to traumatic brain injury, right hemisphere brain damage, and various dementias.
Prerequisites: Permission of instructor
CSD 663 Clinical Perspectives on Autism Spectrum Disorders (2 Credit Hours)
Students in this class will study diagnostic and intervention methods necessary for speech-language pathologists treating people diagnosed with Autism Spectrum Disorders.
Prerequisites: CSD 453 / CSD 553 or equivalent
CSD 664 Culturally Sustaining Communication Practices in Speech-Language Pathology (1 Credit Hour)
Students will discuss cultural competence as applied in the speech-language pathology clinical process, including a self-examination of bias and effective communication through a culturally-responsive lens.
Prerequisites: Permission of instructor
CSD 665 Theories of Supervision in Speech-Language Pathology (1 Credit Hour)
Students will discuss models of effective clinical supervision, with an emphasis on preparation and planning to guide students, clinical fellows, and speech-language pathology assistants.
Prerequisites: Permission of instructor
CSD 668 Advanced Clinical Externship in Speech-Language Pathology (3 Credit Hours)
In this externship, students will apply advanced speech-language pathology techniques in diagnosis and intervention for individuals with communication and swallowing disorders in medical or educational settings. Students will work full time in an off-campus facility to complete clock hours for certification purposes.
Pre- or corequisite: Passing grade in CSD 669 , and permission of faculty
CSD 669 Clinical Practicum in Speech-Language Pathology I, II, III (3 Credit Hours)
These practica are designed to provide students with experiences in the evaluation and treatment of a variety of communication disorders in children and adults.
CSD 697 Independent Study in Communication Sciences and Disorders (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent study of special topics in communication sciences and disorders.
Prerequisites: Permission of instructor
CSD 750 Neuromotor Speech Disorders (3 Credit Hours)
The content of this course focuses on the neurological bases of speech, disorders of speech production associated with neurologic diseases, as well as methods for evaluation and treatment of those disorders.
CSD 850 Neuromotor Speech Disorders (3 Credit Hours)
The content of this course focuses upon the structural and neurological bases of speech disorders, particularly those related to laryngeal and central nervous system pathologies. Advanced expertise in neuromotor speech disorders will be developed along with in depth familiarity and analysis of related literature.
Search catalog
