University Libraries
Academic Success Center
The Academic Success Center (ASC) empowers all to thrive academically, personally, and professionally. The Academic Success Center provides an inclusive environment dedicated to building authentic relationships and community, fostering meaningful learning experiences, and collaborating with all as they pursue their passion and purpose. In partnership with the Provost, Vice Provost and other University leaders, this area is responsible for the coordination of academic success programs across the University.
The ASC includes: Academic Initiatives, ePortfolio & Digital Initiatives, High Impact Learning Initiatives, TRIO: Student Support Services, TRIO: McNair Scholars, TRIO: Upward Bound, Transfer Initiatives and Transfer Center, Completion Initiatives and Advisor Support, First Year Student Success, and Monarch Internship and Co-Op. This team provides strategic direction for academic success initiatives across all academic colleges and a diverse array of services and programs for students. The staff works to ensure students learn about academic programs and majors; connect to campus peers, groups, and others with similar interests; make academic plans, monitor progress, and reach short-and long-term goals; engage in active learning and work-based learning programs; find and use academic support services; and showcase skills, talents, and abilities.
Division of Student Enrollment, Engagement &  Services
The Division of Student Enrollment, Engagement & Services is responsible for the development, implementation, communication, and maintenance of an institutional focus on student success, which includes enrollment management. In partnership with the Provost and other University leaders, this area is responsible for the coordination of student success programs across the University and for student retention. The division provides creative leadership and strategic direction for a diverse array of student engagement services and programs including:  Admissions (Undergraduate, Graduate, International), Assessment & Planning, Budget Management, Campus Life Services Central, Campus Visitors & Events, Center for Career & Leadership Development, Center for Orientation, Chartway Arena, Counseling Services, CRM & Integrated Systems, Dean of Students, Divisional Communications & Marketing, Divisional IT Support, Educational Accessibility, Enrollment Marketing & Communications, Financial Aid, Housing & Residence Life, Intercultural Relations, Military Connection Center, Monarch Card & Mail Services, Monarch Dining Services, Recreation & Wellness, Retention & Engagement, Strategic Initiatives, Student Accountability  & Academic Integrity, Student Engagement & Traditions, Student Health Center, University Village Bookstore, Webb University Center, and Women's & Gender Equity Center.
Educational Accessibility
The Office of Educational Accessibility (OEA), located at 1021 in the Student Success Center, is dedicated to providing students with disabilities access to higher education. The University offers accommodations and services depending on documentation presented by the student. It complies with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, and its Amendments of 2008. For students with specific learning, medical, psychological, physical or mobility, visual, hearing, or temporary and other challenges, reasonable accommodations are afforded. Students with disabilities benefit greatly from the accommodations and other supportive services offered by the Office of Educational Accessibility, which also significantly contribute to their academic performance.
All students must submit the proper documentation and register with OEA to receive help. Instructions for registering and guidelines for documentation can be found at https://www.odu.edu/accessibility .   Calling (757) 683-4655 will provide more detailed information. Interactions between students and OEA are kept confidential and private.  OEA expects new students who require interpreters to contact them at least 45 days before registration to prepare. As soon as a student has pre-registered for a semester, they must pre-register for accommodations for themselves at https://forms.odu.edu/view.php?id=118083 .
An overview of compliance standards can be found at https://ww1.odu.edu/equity/ .
Student Outreach and Support (SOS)
Denisse Thillet-Tirado, Associate Dean of Students and Director of Student Outreach and Support
Student Outreach and Support (SOS) is a service within the Dean of Students Office that provides support to students who experience administrative, academic, or personal road blocks.  These services include extended absence notifications, emergency grants, and administrative withdrawals from the University.  SOS is available to help students achieve their personal and academic goals.
The University Care Team is an extension of Student Outreach and Support.  The Care Team was developed to provide a University-wide system of care and support for students who experience an unexpected crisis.  The Care Team's role is to determine effective strategies for addressing concerns and connecting students with the appropriate resources.  Student Outreach and Support is located in 2008 Webb Center, and can be reached at (757) 683-3442 or oducares@odu.edu . For more information please visit the SOS website at: www.odu.edu/sos .
University Libraries
Old Dominion University Libraries enrich the academic, research, and learning experience of the University community by inspiring and empowering the Monarch community to learn, grow, and create. The University Libraries provide students access to extensive digital resources, online journals, e-books, streaming media, and other electronic resources in all fields of research and instruction. The Libraries also offer access to Naro Video @ ODU Libraries , a collection of 43,000+ videos and materials made available to the Monarch community and to any member of Friends of the ODU Libraries.
On the University Libraries’ website at www.odu.edu/library , students can find library guides, instructional videos, Chat reference, and many other services. The Libraries include the Patricia W. and J. Douglas Perry Library, the Elise N. Hofheimer Art Library, and the Music Library and F. Ludwig Diehn Composers Room. Each facility holds specialized book collections, maps, scores, recordings, microforms, and equipment available for borrowing. At our Help Desks, staff are on hand to provide assistance with information, location, instruction, and informational technology questions. Additionally, students and faculty members have online access to the Virtual Library of Virginia’s collections and may borrow books and other materials from participating libraries across the commonwealth.
Elise N. Hofheimer Art Library
Barry Arts Building, 47th Street and Monarch Way, Room 2008, second floor; 757-683-4059
The Hofheimer Art Library contains specialized books, journals, online resources, videos, audio-visual titles, and other materials for students and faculty in the visual arts. Reserve materials for ODU Art Department classes are available at the service desk. Individual and group study space, computers, drawing tablet, scanner, and network printer are available. Visit the Art Library at www.odu.edu/library/art .
Music Library and F. Ludwig Diehn Composers Room
Diehn Center for the Performing Arts, Room 189; 757-683-4173
The Music Library contains print scores, music audio, and video content. Reserve materials for School of Music classes are available at the service desk. Students have access to PC and Mac computers, a DVD/VCR player, CD player, audio cassette player, turntable, flatbed scanner, and network printer.
The Diehn Composers Room is co-located with the Music Library and contains unique and rare manuscripts, scores, audio recordings, memorabilia, and other specialized music materials. Reference and research services are available in the Reading Room, including the use of a Steinway grand piano by appointment only. Visit the Music Library and Diehn Composers Room at www.odu.edu/library/diehn .
Patricia W. and J. Douglas Perry Library
Perry Library offers quiet study space, collaborative rooms for group projects, accessibility services, a café, meeting space, and other facilities for student success. The Monarch community will also find Naro Video @ ODU Libraries .  This unique collection of 43,000+ videos and materials is located in Room 1222 of Perry Library.
Learning Commons @ Perry Library
First Floor, 757-683-4178
The Learning Commons @ Perry Library is a collaborative project of the University Libraries, Information Technology Services, and the Office of Academic Success Initiatives & Support (ASIS), providing year-round services with 24/5 operating hours during spring and fall semesters. The facility includes individual study space, group collaboration space, presentation practice, computers, wireless access, printers, scanners, GIS/digital media/other specialized software, and a sound room that can be reserved by students. Students can access research assistance and resources, information technology assistance, tutoring and writing centers, and other services supporting student success.
At the Perry Library Help Desk, located in the Learning Commons ( www.odu.edu/learningcommons ), students with a valid University ID may borrow equipment, media, books, reserve materials, and other items. Graduate student study carrels are also available. Information on borrowing privileges, loan periods, and policies is available at www.odu.edu/library/services/borrowing .
Interlibrary Loan and Document Delivery Services
757-683-4170, 4172
Interlibrary loan allows ODU students, faculty, and staff to request journal articles, books, and other needed research materials not available in the University Libraries. The Commonwealth’s Virtual Library of Virginia interlibrary loan agreement ensures that students, faculty, and staff may obtain items located in other Virginia libraries. Document delivery services provide copies of materials held in the University Libraries’ collection to online and other eligible students, faculty, and staff. Interlibrary loan and document delivery requests can be submitted online at www.odu.edu/library/services/interlibrary-loan .
Research Help Services
Help Desk, First Floor, 757-683-4178
ODU Libraries staff assist students and faculty with all types of research using all formats of library resources. Librarians and staff provide direct individual assistance by telephone, e-mail, live online Chat, and face-to-face and virtual consultation by appointment. Local and online students may obtain assistance by visiting or calling the Help Desk, directly contacting a subject librarian, using the Chat service, or submitting a question through Ask-A-Librarian at www.odu.edu/library/help/ask-librarian .
Instructional Support
ODU Libraries offer library instruction sessions to courses with research assignments or library-related learning goals. The Libraries also provide online tutorials, videos, and online guides to help students build research skills and increase knowledge in information literacy, as well as workshops and programing designed to support student learning and to facilitate connections between students, the Libraries, and the University community. Additional information can be found at www.odu.edu/library/services/instruction .
Special Collections & University Archives
Third floor, 757-683-4483
Special Collections & University Archives, located on the third floor of Perry Library, preserves and provides access to the Libraries’ unique and rare collections documenting the history of ODU, Virginia, and the region. The collections cover a wide range of topics that enrich scholarly opportunities, and students and faculty are encouraged to visit and use the collections and services. Special Collections’ materials include rare books, diaries, letters, legal and campaign files, oral histories, music, film, photographs, maps, and more. Moreover, the University Archives document the history of the University and include yearbooks, department records, student organization records, course catalogs, film, photographs, etc. Special Collections staff are available to assist students and faculty with research requests and host class sessions specializing in active-learning exercises with primary sources. Visit Special Collections at www.odu.edu/library/special-collections .
Several digitized collections of materials from Special Collections & University Archives are also freely available online. Visit the ODU Digital Collections at https://olddomuni.access.preservica.com/ .
ODU Digital Commons and Scholarly Communications Services
The Department of Scholarly Communication & Publishing provides services at all levels of the scholarly research life cycle, ranging from copyright and author rights to data management, publishing, and research impact. ODU Digital Commons ( digitalcommons.odu.edu ), the University’s institutional repository, is integral to these services as it brings together scholarly, creative, and institutional works for preservation, visibility, and worldwide open access. Digital Commons also provides a publishing platform for hosting journals, proceedings, and events.
Accessibility Services
First Floor, 757-683-4178
The Library Accessibility Room in the Learning Commons provides specialized equipment and quiet space for students registered with the University’s Office of Educational Accessibility . This wheelchair accessible room can be reserved for individual use. The facility houses CCTV, workstations with FUSION Professional, Read and Write Gold, and other adaptive technologies. Orientation, reservations, and research consultation appointments are available through the Learning Commons Help Desk.
Also, the Help Desk provides on-demand paging to students who need special assistance with retrieving materials from the upper floors. Information about accessibility is available on the University Libraries’ web site at www.odu.edu/library/services/accessibility .
Search catalog
