HIST 104H
Interpreting the American Past
Please refer to the Graduate Catalog for additional information on the MA in international studies as well as the doctoral program in international studies.
BA or BS to MBA (Master of Business Administration) Linked Program
The linked BA/MBA or BS/MBA program is an early entry to the MBA program of study.  The early-entry program is designed for well qualified non-business undergraduate ODU students to start their MBA program prior to completing their undergraduate degree.  Well qualified non-business undergraduate students may take MBA-level courses as early as three semesters prior to graduation and count up to 12 graduate credits toward their undergraduate degree.  Students participating in the early-entry program must earn a minimum of 150 credit hours (120 discrete credit hours for the undergraduate degree and 30 discrete credit hours for the graduate degree).  Early-entry program students should carefully consider their undergraduate degree program requirements when planning their course of study.  Students in the early-entry program work in close consultation with the MBA Program Office and should refer to information in the Strome College of Business section in the graduate catalog to develop an individualized plan of study based on the required coursework.
BA or BS to MPA (Master of Public Administration) Linked Program
The linked BA/MPA or BS/MPA program provides qualified Old Dominion University undergraduate students with the opportunity to earn a master's degree in public administration while taking credits in the MPA program as an undergraduate student.  The program is designed for highly motivated students with the desire to immediately continue their education after the bachelor's degree.  The program is especially relevant to individuals seeking to work (or currently working) in the public or non-profit sectors, but is suitable for students from any undergraduate major.  Graduate courses may be taken during the fall and spring semester of the student's senior undergraduate year.  Up to 12 graduate credits can count toward both the undergraduate and graduate degree and can meet upper-level General Education requirements. After receiving the undergraduate degree, a student will continue with the MPA program, taking MPA courses until completing the required 39 credit hours. Students in the linked program must earn a minimum of 150 credit hours (120 discrete credit hours for the undergraduate degree and 30 discrete credit hours for the graduate degree).
Requirements for admission to the graduate program can be found in the School of Public Service section of the Graduate Catalog .  For additional information, please contact the School of Public Service in the Strome College of Business.
Courses
Geography (GEOG)
GEOG 100S Human Geography (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides a basic topical introduction to human and cultural geography.  It focuses on the diversity of human societies, their distribution, characteristics, and cultural impact on the landscape.  Topics include the geography of population, migration, language, religion, economic development, urbanization, resources, and the political landscape.
GEOG 101S Environmental Geography (3 Credit Hours)
A geographical study of the diverse characteristics of the Earth's physical landscape, spatial distribution of environmental characteristics, the impacts of these on human populations and human populations' impact on the natural environment.  Topics include climate and climate change, mass movements and natural hazards, biogeography and environmental problems such as desertification and deforestation, and the use and abuse of water resources.
GEOG 102T Digital Earth: Geospatial Technology and Society (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides an overview and exploration of: 1) the digital representation of the Earth and 2) geospatial science and technology. The course investigates geospatial technological innovations affecting the environment, resources, and society, including satellite global positioning systems, geographic information systems, and earth observations. Students develop hands-on skills as well as critical-thinking skills concerning the role of increasingly ubiquitous geospatial technology and their influences on social, economic, and human-environment interactions.
GEOG 126S Honors: Cultural Geography (3 Credit Hours)
Open only to students in the Honors College.  A special honors section of GEOG 100S .
GEOG 250 World Regional Geography (3 Credit Hours)
A study of the physical and cultural characteristics of the major geographical regions of the world. The course focuses upon significant problems within each of the world's major regions and examines the relevance of the geographical background to these problems.
GEOG 295 Topics in Geography (3 Credit Hours)
A study of selective topics in Geography.
GEOG 296 Topics in Geography (3 Credit Hours)
A study of selective topics in Geography.
GEOG 300 Maps and Geographic Information (3 Credit Hours)
An investigation of different representations of the Earth:  physical and cognitive maps, atlases, spatial databases, aerial photographs, and remote sensing imagery, with an emphasis on the use of geographic tools for communicating and analyzing information.
Prerequisites: GEOG 100S or GEOG 101S
GEOG 305 World Resources (3 Credit Hours)
A geographical analysis of the distribution and accessibility of the world's resources including population, agricultural land, biodiversity, water, renewable and nonrenewable materials, and energy sources.
Prerequisites: GEOG 100S or GEOG 101S , or permission of the instructor
GEOG 306T Hazards: Natural and Technological (3 Credit Hours)
An exploration of human perceptions of and responses to extreme geophysical and technological threats, including nuclear bombs and accidents, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, and volcanoes.
Prerequisites: junior standing and six credits in the social sciences or permission of the instructor
GEOG 308 Research Design (3 Credit Hours)
Covers the design and implementation of quantitative and qualitative methods of inquiry in social sciences.
Prerequisites: GEOG 100S or GEOG 101S
GEOG 310 Geography of the City (3 Credit Hours)
An analysis of the structure, growth, and development of cities.  Topics include the use of urban land, location of public services, structure of the urban economy, social problems of urban populations, and decay and revitalization.
Prerequisites: Completion of General Education human behavior requirement
GEOG 320 Political Geography (3 Credit Hours)
A study of the relationship between geographical and political factors; the nation state and its subdivisions; interaction among states; and the political geography of everyday life.
Prerequisites: Completion of General Education human behavior requirement
GEOG 321 World Economic Geography (3 Credit Hours)
An analysis of differences in spatial patterns on the economic landscape at national and international levels, and the processes which create such differences.  Introduces basic concepts, theories, and models in economic geography at the global scale.
Prerequisites: GEOG 100S or GEOG 101S , or permission of the instructor
GEOG 325 Ethnic Minorities (3 Credit Hours)
A study of ethnic minorities worldwide with emphasis on geographical dimensions of ethnic identity and relationships between ethnicity and territory, regionalism, politics, and cultural expression.
Prerequisites: Sophomore standing or permission of the instructor
GEOG 330 Field Methods (3 Credit Hours)
A review of selected techniques for generating data in a field situation.  Lectures deal with the description and evaluation of techniques such as sampling methods, observation, interviewing, questionnaires, human relations skills and ethical considerations.  The project component involves the definition of field problems and the application of appropriate techniques.
Prerequisites: Sophomore standing or permission of the instructor
GEOG 350 Geography of the United States and Canada (3 Credit Hours)
The human and physical geography of the United States and Canada with special emphasis on the distribution of population and natural resources, migration patterns, location of major economic activities, and the variety of regional identities within the U.S. and Canada.
Prerequisites: Junior standing and six credits in human behavior, or permission of the instructor
GEOG 355 Topics in Regional Geography (3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected regions or selected problems within a particular region of the world.
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
GEOG 367 Cooperative Education (1-3 Credit Hours)
Student participation for credit based on the academic relevance of the work experience, criteria and evaluative procedures as formally determined by the department and Career Development Services prior to the semester in which the work experience is to take place.
Prerequisites: Approval by the department and Career Development Servcies
GEOG 368 Internship in Geography (1-12 Credit Hours)
Individualized practical experience in the area of applied geography.  The credits will be commensurate with the level of the student's involvement.
Prerequisites: Twelve hours in geography
GEOG 370 Introduction to Emergency Management (3 Credit Hours)
Disasters in the U.S and abroad are examined to study the evolution of emergency practices. Factors contributing to the hazardousness of place and community vulnerability are explored. Emergency phases are practiced through interactive simulations.
Prerequisites: GEOG 100S or GEOG 101S , or permission of the instructor
GEOG 395 Topics in Geography (1-4 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics designed for nonmajors, or for elective credit within a major.  These courses will appear in the course schedule and will be more fully described in information distributed to all academic advisors.
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
GEOG 396 Topics in Geography (1-4 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics designed for nonmajors, or for elective credit within a major.  These courses will appear in the course schedule and will be more fully described in information distributed to all academic advisors.
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
GEOG 398 Tutorial Work in Geography (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent study under the direction of an instructor.
Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor
GEOG 400W/500 Seminar in Geography (3 Credit Hours)
Advanced study of a specialized topic in geography.  The choice of the topic may vary according to the availability of faculty expertise and student interest.  This is a writing intensive course. This course may be repeated once provided it is a different topic and with permission of the instructor.
Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C ; GEOG 100S or GEOG 101S , or permission of the instructor
GEOG 401/501 Global Environmental Policy (3 Credit Hours)
This course analyzes the causes, severity, potential consequences, and proposed solutions regarding global ecological issues with special attention to the scientific debate and the political and policy process. It examines environmental policies of national governments, regional/international organizations, and global conferences.
Prerequisites: GEOG 100S or GEOG 101S or GEOG 102T or POLS 100S or POLS 101S or POLS 102S or permission of the instructor
GEOG 402/502 Geographic Information Systems (3 Credit Hours)
A study of the conceptual basis of GIS as a tool for manipulating spatial information.  The course focuses on how geographic information can be input and organized within the framework of a GIS.  Students will work on a computer-based GIS to gain a greater understanding of spatial database structures and analytical operations.
Prerequisites: Junior standing, GEOG 102T , or permission of instructor
GEOG 404/504 Digital Techniques for Remote Sensing (3 Credit Hours)
Study of the theory and application of remote sensing, emphasizing environmental applications and aerial and satellite imagery.  Covers the fundamentals of multispectral digital image processing, including sensors pre-processing, enhancement, classification, accuracy assessment, and GIS data integration.
Prerequisites: Junior standing, GEOG 102T , or permission of instructor
GEOG 405/505 Seminar in International Resource Management (3 Credit Hours)
Discussion of the ecological and management principles underlying international resource management and the goal of attaining a sustainable, ecologically balanced world.
Prerequisites: GEOG 100S or GEOG 101S ; GEOG 305 recommended
GEOG 408/508 Cartography (3 Credit Hours)
Computer-assisted methods and techniques employed in the design, construction, and use of maps and other graphics as tools for data analysis and communication.
Prerequisites: GEOG 300 or GEOG 402
GEOG 409/509 Drone Applications Proseminar (3 Credit Hours)
Survey of the state-of-the-art geospatial applications of small Uncrewed Autonomous Systems (sUAS) mapping, surveying, and modeling.  Course combines seminars spanning application sectors of research and professional practice; lectures on mission planning, operations, analysis and regulations; and hands-on practical exercises incorporating risk management, safety, ethics, and legal issues.
Prerequisites: GEOG 402 or permission of instructor
GEOG 410/510 Seminar in Urban Geography (3 Credit Hours)
Discussion of specific urban and metropolitan problems based on outside readings and individually selected research topics.
Prerequisites: GEOG 100S or GEOG 101S , or permission of the instructor
GEOG 411/511 Urban and Regional Planning (3 Credit Hours)
A study of planning concepts and principles used to guide contemporary metropolitan growth and development. Emphasis is on the application of planning tools and methods that guide the planning process from conception to execution.
Prerequisites: GEOG 100S or GEOG 101S , or permission of the instructor
GEOG 412/512 Cities of the World (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of cities of the world's major cultural realms with an emphasis on the urban landscape as it varies between developed and developing countries.
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
GEOG 417/517 GIS for Planning and Public Policy (3 Credit Hours)
Geographic Information Systems (GIS) and science are an essential tool for urban planners and policy makers who have special interests in places and who need this kind of knowledge for decision making. The purpose of this course is to teach students the foundations of GIS and how it is applied in urban planning and other related disciplines. The course combines lectures, discussion of readings, and hands-on exercises in the computer lab.
Prerequisites: GEOG 402 or permission of the instructor
GEOG 418 Quantitative Methods (3 Credit Hours)
A survey of and practicum in the basic techniques of quantitative research, including the logic of empirical research, the identification of data sources, and the use of appropriate statistical techniques.
Prerequisites: GEOG 100S or GEOG 101S , GEOG 308 with a grade of C- or better
Pre- or corequisite: STAT 130M with a grade of C- or better
GEOG 419/519 Spatial Analysis of Coastal Environments (3 Credit Hours)
The course integrates remotely sensed and field techniques for scientific investigation and practical management of coastal environmental systems.  Spatial modeling of coastal processes and management tools using Geographic Information System (GIS).
Prerequisites: GEOG 300 , GEOG 402 or GEOG 502 , or permission of instructor
GEOG 420/520 Marine Geography (3 Credit Hours)
An analysis of the environmental geography and resources of the ocean, with particular emphasis on geospatial analysis of the seafloor, hydrography, climate change, fisheries, ocean pollution, maritime activity spaces and management.
Prerequisites: Junior standing and six credits in human behavior, or permission of the instructor
GEOG 422W/522 Coastal Geography (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of the physical and human geography of the coastal zone.  Considers problems of managing coastal resources with an emphasis on North America.  Lectures focus on coastal patterns, processes, and problems at the global, national, and local scales.  Students investigate a section of the local coastline and write a report on the physical and human geography on the basis of field study, library, and internet research.  This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: GEOG 100S or GEOG 101S , a grade of C or better in ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C , or permission of the instructor
GEOG 424/524 Weather, Climate and Society (3 Credit Hours)
Weather and climate play a pivotal role in nearly every aspect of life.  How does temperature relate to health outcomes?  What impact does El Niño have on Peruvian farmers?  How is the issue of climate change reflected in national security policy?  Why?  Topics also include the energy balance equation, remote sensing techniques, and climatological data acquisition and analysis.  Beyond an understanding of the complex processes that dictate the flow of the atmosphere, the course analyzes the socioeconomic, political, and cultural perspectives of climate and weather.  The course also provides a framework for stewardship and responsibility to the future.
Prerequisites: GEOG 100S , GEOG 101S , or permission of the instructor
GEOG 425/525 Internet Geographic Information Systems (3 Credit Hours)
Theoretical and practical exploration of methods, standards, and policies related to the development and utilization of geographic information systems on the Internet.  Students will create and utilize distributed geospatial data and analytical systems using the WWW and the Internet to address geographical problems.
Prerequisites: GEOG 402
GEOG 432/532 Advanced GIS (3 Credit Hours)
The study of a series of advanced topics in the field of geographic information systems/science.  Focus is placed on the development of projects/models and a survey of several advanced techniques.  Students will work on a computer based GIS to implement topics from lectures.
Prerequisites: GEOG 402
GEOG 446/546 Geography, Gender, and Sexuality (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines gender identity and sexuality in all of their diverse forms through a lens of human geography, such as metaphors of space and place, the cultural landscape, and 'mapping territory.' Topics explored include global gender identities; 'queer space;' 'locating' gender and sexuality within the arts and tourism; the gendered citizen and the nation; and political economies of gender and sexuality.
Prerequisites: Junior standing, GEOG 100S or GEOG 101S , a grade of C or better in ENGL 211C , ENGL 221C, or ENGL 231C , or permission of the instructor
GEOG 451/551 Europe (3 Credit Hours)
A geographical analysis of the interrelationships among physical, cultural, economic, and political factors in Europe.
Prerequisites: Junior standing and GEOG 100S or GEOG 101S , or permission of the instructor
GEOG 452/552 Africa (3 Credit Hours)
A geographical analysis of the interrelationships among physical, cultural, economic, and political factors in Africa.
Prerequisites: Junior standing and GEOG 100S or GEOG 101S , or permission of the instructor
GEOG 453/553 Asia (3 Credit Hours)
A geographical analysis of the interrelationships among physical, cultural, economic, and political factors in Asia excluding the Middle East and the former USSR.
Prerequisites: Junior standing and GEOG 100S or GEOG 101S , or permission of the instructor
GEOG 454W/554 Latin America (3 Credit Hours)
A geographical analysis of the interrelationships among physical, cultural, economic, and political factors in Latin America. This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: Junior standing, GEOG 100S or GEOG 101S , a grade of C or better in ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C , or permission of the instructor
GEOG 455/555 The Middle East (3 Credit Hours)
A geographical analysis of the interrelationships among physical, cultural, economic, and political factors in the Middle East.
Prerequisites: Junior standing and GEOG 100S or GEOG 101S , or permission of the instructor
GEOG 458/558 Geography of Virginia (3 Credit Hours)
An analysis of Virginia's population, resources, and regional landscapes as they have been influenced by physical, cultural, historical, and economic factors.
Prerequisites: GEOG 100S or GEOG 101S
GEOG 460/560 Medical Geography (3 Credit Hours)
The course covers a range of topics in medical and health geography, including spatial behaviors of infectious disease and health care access. The focus of the course is on the geographical patterns of health and disease from the population rather than individual scale. In addition to seminar style lectures and discussions, the course enables students to further investigate by learning how to conduct medical/health geography research.
Prerequisites: Successful completion of the University's lower-division General Education requirement in Human Behavior, or permission of the instructor
GEOG 462/562 Advanced Spatial Analysis (3 Credit Hours)
This course introduces the essential theoretical concepts and analytical tools for analyzing spatial process, spatial autocorrelation, spatial patterns, techniques for spatial interpolation, network connectivity, big data, and landscape patterns. The course culminates with students carrying out their own spatial analysis projects. This course assumes that students understand the basic concepts in GIS with some experience in software operation of ArcGIS.
Prerequisites: GEOG 402 or permission of the instructor
GEOG 463/563 GIS Programming (3 Credit Hours)
This course develops students’ GIS programming skills. Focus is placed on Python programming in ArcGIS and JavaScript in Web GIS development.
Prerequisites: GEOG 402
GEOG 464/564 Advanced Environmental Geography Seminar (3 Credit Hours)
The objective of the course is to provide students with a deeper understanding of the current concepts and debates in environmental geography.  By exploring the ethical and philosophical foundations of the field, the course considers the environment’s opportunities and constraints.  While topics may include climate change, agricultural security, and renewable energy, the course will be driven by student-led discussions and participation.  Critically thinking about complex phenomenon, the seminar will include various weekly readings, discussions, and writing assignments.
Prerequisites: GEOG 100S or GEOG 101S or permission of the instructor
GEOG 473/573 Geographic Information Systems for Emergency Management (3 Credit Hours)
Students will demonstrate advanced skills and techniques using spatial data to prevent, mitigate, respond to, and recover from intentional, natural, and accidental homeland security threats and emergencies. This course demonstrates the importance of rapidly disseminating spatial information towards the prevention and response of various organizations to homeland security events. This course will provide students with the tools and experience required to collect, prepare and manage spatial data and enable students to be prepared to map and analyze the data to quickly and effectively create a coordinated response to real homeland security events.
Prerequisites: GEOG 100S , GEOG 101S , GEOG 102T , or permission of the instructor
GEOG 475/575 Urban Resiliency (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the multifaceted interface of built and natural environments and their impacts on land use management at spatial and temporal scales. It evaluates the impact of population pressure on sustainability through a survey of urban areas and analyzes urban planning and management capacities to maintain resilience despite environmental and technological hazards.
Prerequisites: GEOG 100S or GEOG 101S or permission of the instructor
GEOG 480W Senior Seminar in International Studies (3 Credit Hours)
Interdisciplinary research and the preparation of a senior thesis in international studies. This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C , senior standing in the BAIS degree program or permission of the instructor
GEOG 481 Geographic Inquiry and Professional Development (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to allow students to synthesize Geography concepts, theories, and knowledge and apply them to: 1) understand their positionality within the paradigms of the discipline, 2) explore future career paths, discover job possibilities, and graduate school opportunities in Geography, and 3) prepare materials (such as resumes and e-portfolios) to be used to apply for such positions.
Prerequisites: GEOG 100S OR GEOG 101S OR GEOG 102T
GEOG 490/590 Applied Cartography/GIS (1-3 Credit Hours)
Practical experience in applying the principles of cartography and geographical information systems to the design and construction of maps and other graphics.
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
GEOG 495/595 Topics in Geography (1-4 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics which, due to their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly.  These courses will appear in the course schedule, and will be more fully described in information distributed to all academic advisors.
Prerequisites: Appropriate survey course or permission of the instructor
GEOG 496/596 Topics in Geography (1-4 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics which, due to their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly.  These courses will appear in the course schedule, and will be more fully described in information distributed to all academic advisors.
Prerequisites: Appropriate survey course or permission of the instructor
GEOG 497/597 Independent Research in Geography (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of the instructor. Conferences and papers as appropriate.
Prerequisites: Senior standing and approval of the director of geography
GEOG 498/598 Tutorial Work in Geography (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent study under the direction of an instructor.
Prerequisites: Permission of instructor
GEOG 499 Senior Thesis (3 Credit Hours)
Completion of a research paper supervised by a faculty member from the Geography program.  Research topic to be selected in concert with the faculty supervisor and a final written report required.
Prerequisites: GEOG 308 and senior standing in Geography
Political Science (POLS)
POLS 100S Introduction to International Politics (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides a basic introduction to the study of international politics.  It considers some of the more prominent theoretical perspectives in the discipline and examines the major political, economic, social and environmental issues presently facing the global community. The course prepares students for advanced study in international politics.
POLS 101S Introduction to American Politics (3 Credit Hours)
This course introduces students to the political processes and the institutions of American politics.  The course examines American political culture, gender and minority rights, citizen participation, national institutions, public policy, and foreign and defense policy.
POLS 102S Introduction to Comparative Government and Politics (3 Credit Hours)
This course introduces basic concepts and methods for the study of comparative politics. It also surveys and compares the political/socioeconomic development, political cultures/ideologies, political institutions, decision-making processes, and public policies of various countries in the world.
POLS 126S Honors: Introduction to American Politics (3 Credit Hours)
Open only to students in the Honors College.  A special honors section of POLS 101S .
POLS 127S Honors: Introduction to International Politics (3 Credit Hours)
Open only to students in the Honors College.  Special honors section of POLS 100S .
POLS 300 Introduction to Public Policy (3 Credit Hours)
An introduction to various approaches to policy making followed by a detailed study of several of the most important domestic contemporary issues (housing, transportation, education, welfare, etc.).
Prerequisites: Six credits in human behavior
POLS 301W Introduction to Public Law (3 Credit Hours)
Introduces the student to the United States legal system through an examination of its institutions, practitioners, and processes. Assignments explore (1) the anatomy of a law suit, (2) legal education in the United States, (3) basic methods of legal reasoning, writing, and argumentation, and (4) the function of judicial precedent within United States courts. This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: POLS 101S and a grade of C or better in ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C
POLS 306 Judicial Process and Behavior (3 Credit Hours)
In-depth analysis of the American court system with an emphasis on the political behavior of the system's participants and the procedural dimensions of the court system.
Prerequisites: POLS 101S
POLS 307 Constitutional Criminal Procedure (3 Credit Hours)
Development of criminal procedure under the United States Constitution, with particular emphasis on the Fourth, Fifth, Sixth, Eighth, and Fourteenth Amendments as interpreted by the U.S. Supreme Court.
POLS 308 Research Design (3 Credit Hours)
Covers the design and implementation of quantitative and qualitative methods of inquiry in social sciences.
Prerequisites: POLS 100S , POLS 101S and POLS 102S or permission of instructor
POLS 309 Race, Culture and Public Policy (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the public policy problems of various racial groups in America.  It analyzes the extent to which the American political system protects and promotes the concerns of African Americans, Hispanics, Native Americans and Asians.
Prerequisites: Six hours in human behavior
POLS 310 Political Theory (3 Credit Hours)
The study of political theory delves into the central concepts that shape humanity’s capacity to think about and practice politics, including justice, liberty, equality, human nature, rights, power, democracy, and the various potential goals of political community. Students will study influential political thinkers such as Plato, Aristotle, Cicero, Augustine of Hippo, Thomas Aquinas, Machiavelli, Hobbes, Locke, Mill, Marx and Rawls.
Prerequisites: POLS 100S or POLS 101S or permission of the instructor
POLS 311 Virginia Politics and Government (3 Credit Hours)
This course is a survey of Virginia state and local government institutions, functions, processes, and behavior of political actors.
Prerequisites: POLS 101S
POLS 312 American Political Thought (3 Credit Hours)
The course considers the origins, evolution, purposes, and relevancy of American political thought.  It includes studies in democracy versus elitism; civil disobedience versus revolution; liberalism versus conservatism.
Prerequisites: POLS 101S or permission of the instructor
POLS 313 United Nations Seminar (1 Credit Hour)
An examination of the United Nations and key issues facing the international community.  Includes a three-day visit to United Nations headquarters in New York.
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
POLS 314 European Politics (3 Credit Hours)
Analyzes and compares the major political functions and the social, economic, and cultural bases of European states.  Also examines the contemporary movement for European economic, military, and political unity.
Prerequisites: POLS 100S or POLS 102S or permission of the instructor
POLS 316 Politics of Africa (3 Credit Hours)
This course is intended to familiarize students with the struggles, advances, and setbacks of African peoples for state-building and socioeconomic development during the colonial and post-independence eras.
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
POLS 319 Lobbies and Interest Groups (3 Credit Hours)
A survey of the lobby movement in America, its history and present status, with particular attention to current lobbies and interest groups and their impact on the national government.
Prerequisites: POLS 101S
POLS 320 United Nations (3 Credit Hours)
Since it was established in 1945 the UN has inspired humanity, undertaken many of the world’s most difficult jobs, and provided great achievements and disappointments. This course examines the functioning of the UN, what it does best and worst, and the prospects for UN reform.
Prerequisites: POLS 100S or GEOG 100S or permission of the instructor
POLS 321W International Organizations (3 Credit Hours)
What are the roles and capabilities of the international organizations? This course examines the principles behind the world’s 300 IOs, including specialized, technical, and regional organizations, as well as alliances and non-governmental organizations. When do they replace states and other actors? When are they essential, when are they helpful adjuncts, and when are they irrelevant? This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: POLS 100S or GEOG 100S and a C or better in English 211C, ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C
POLS 323 International Political Economy (3 Credit Hours)
Introduces students to the primary mechanisms of the global political economy in allocating goods, income, wealth and the means to produce them, with emphasis on the international division of labor.
Prerequisites: Six hours of human behavior
POLS 324 International Relations Theory (3 Credit Hours)
Comparative study of the various theories that attempt to explain the patterns of interactions among the different members of the global community.  Draws on historical and modern cases to explain traditional and alternative theories.
Prerequisites: POLS 100S and an additional three hours of human behavior
POLS 325W World Politics (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed for intermediate students who are interested in the theoretical and systematic study of world politics.  The course first introduces students to several major theoretical approaches to the study of world politics, and then applies these approaches to a number of major issues--ranging from conflict and cooperation, arms control, the protection of human rights, international trade, economic development, and environmental preservation.  This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C , six hours of human behavior and junior standing
POLS 326W American Foreign Policy (3 Credit Hours)
This course presents those factors that go into the making and analyzing of American foreign policy, explores their application in decision making, and seeks to test their utilization against contemporary problems.  This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: POLS 100S and a grade of C or better in ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C , or permission of the instructor
POLS 327W Politics of National Security (3 Credit Hours)
Examination of issues facing America as it debates the use of international force, including the range of national security choices, defense reform, and the tensions between American resort to warfare and global trends transforming the ability to use violence effectively.  This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: POLS 100S or permission of the instructor and a grade of C or better in ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C
POLS 328 Russian Politics (3 Credit Hours)
Starting with the Soviet communist system, explores Russia's efforts to establish democracy and the rule of law, to fashion a productive, beneficial market economy, to establish viable relationships with the other former republics of the USSR and to craft advantageous foreign and military policies toward the West, Asia, and the developing countries.
Prerequisites: POLS 100S or POLS 102S or GEOG 100S or permission of the instructor
POLS 331 State and Local Government (3 Credit Hours)
This course is a survey of state and local government institutions, functions, processes, and behavior of political actors.
Prerequisites: POLS 101S
POLS 332W Europe in World Affairs (3 Credit Hours)
Analyzes European politics from World War II to the present.  Emphasizes the foreign policies of major European states, including policies towards EU and  NATO. This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: POLS 100S and ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C
POLS 333 Media and Politics (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of the development of the news media and the role of political communication and information in American politics.  Analysis of the newsmaking process; media coverage of political campaigns, the President and Congress; the impact of the news media on the American public; and the interaction between public officials and journalists.
Prerequisites: POLS 101S
POLS 334 Electoral Politics (3 Credit Hours)
A survey of electoral politics and behavior, including the structure of the electoral system, contemporary political campaigning, political partisanship, voting behavior, and role of interest groups in the electoral process.
Prerequisites: POLS 100S or POLS 101S or POLS 102S
POLS 335 Environmental Politics (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the evolution of environmentalism in the United States, including the policy-making process, science and the role played by the public and political institutions.
Prerequisites: POLS 101S
POLS 336 South Asia Since Independence (3 Credit Hours)
This is a comparative study of the main political, economic and social developments in the major countries of South Asia.  Themes will include democratization, problems of economic development, the role of caste and religion, the causes of intrastate conflict and interstate conflict and the influence of global forces on the region.
Prerequisites: POLS 100S or POLS 102S
POLS 337 Latin American Politics (3 Credit Hours)
Examines the evolution of Latin American politics, including early colonial and caudillo rule, populism and radicalism, the emergence of military regimes, and the reestablishment of constitutional democracies.  Also considers contemporary economic, social, cultural, and environmental issues which condition state-society relations in the region.
Prerequisites: Six hours in human behavior
POLS 338W Politics of East Asia (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines political cultures/traditions, governmental institutions, decision-making processes, public policies, political organizations, and significant socio-political issues of such East Asian countries as China, Japan and Korea.  In addition, it explores the collective impact of these countries on world politics and global economy.  This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in ENGL 110C and ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C , six hours in human behavior, and junior standing or permission of the instructor
POLS 350T Technology and War (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the fundamental changes and continuities that the evolution of technology has brought to armed conflict.  It explores the historical development of technology and warfare, emphasizing the role of cultural, social and political choice shaping the development of new military technologies and affecting how they are used.  What is the future of Western assumptions about technologically dominated warfare?
Prerequisites: POLS 100S or permission of the instructor
POLS 367 Cooperative Education (1-3 Credit Hours)
Student participation for credit based on the academic relevance of the work experience, criteria, and evaluative procedures as formally determined by the department and Career Development Services prior to the semester in which the work experience is to take place.
Prerequisites: Approval of the department chair and Career Development Services
POLS 368 Internship in Political Science (1-12 Credit Hours)
Individualized practical experience in public bureaucracies, political groups, administrative agencies or law firms.  Group seminars are held periodically under the supervision of faculty.  Credits are commensurate with the level of the student's involvement.
Prerequisites: Nine hours in political science, 3 of which must be in an upper-level course
POLS 395 Topics in Political Science (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics designed for nonmajors, or for elective credit within a major.  These courses and any additional prerequisites will appear in the course schedule, and will be more fully described in information distributed to all academic advisors.
Prerequisites: Junior standing and permission of the instructor
POLS 396 Topics in Political Science (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics designed for nonmajors, or for elective credit within a major.  These courses and any additional prerequisites will appear in the course schedule, and will be more fully described in information distributed to all academic advisors.
Prerequisites: Junior standing and permission of the instructor
POLS 400 Congress (3 Credit Hours)
This is a detailed study of the institutional and behavioral factors at work in legislative decision making, especially at the national level.  Emphases are on the interrelationships among Congress, the Presidency, and the bureaucracy and on learning how to do research on specific legislation.
Prerequisites: POLS 101S or permission of the instructor
POLS 401/501 Global Environmental Policy (3 Credit Hours)
This course analyzes the causes, severity, potential consequences, and proposed solutions regarding global ecological issues with special attention to the scientific debate and the political and policy process.  It examines environmental policies of national governments, regional/international organizations, and global conferences.
Prerequisites: GEOG 100S or GEOG 101S or GEOG 102T or POLS 100S or POLS 102S
POLS 403/503 American Constitutional Law: First Amendment (3 Credit Hours)
The course explores the development of conflicting judicial and legal theories arising from Supreme Court enforcement of the First Amendment’s protection of speech and religious freedoms. Supreme Court opinions, along with the underlying theories that inform its decisions and rationales, are the focus of the assignments and class discussion.
Prerequisites: POLS 101S or permission of the instructor
POLS 407 American Presidency (3 Credit Hours)
The course covers the development of presidential power and activity, the contemporary operations of the Presidency, and the problems which may confront the institution in the future.
Prerequisites: POLS 101S or permission of the instructor
POLS 408 American Constitutional Law: Individual Rights (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of the vexatious line between the rights of individuals and those of the state in the American democracy, focusing on such major issues as freedom of expression and worship; freedom of the press; separation of church and state; privacy; and racial and gender discrimination.
Prerequisites: POLS 101S
POLS 409 American Constitutional Law: Powers of Government (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of separation of powers, federalism and the democratic process as reflected by Supreme Court decisions.  Also, the Supreme Court as a political institution.
Prerequisites: POLS 101S
POLS 410/510 African American Politics (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the political development of Black people in the United States by focusing on the relationship and processes of the American political system.  The political dynamics of Black political thought, the Civil Rights Movement, and Black protest politics are also analyzed.
Prerequisites: Six hours in human behavior and junior standing
POLS 412/512 Politics of the Civil Rights Movement (3 Credit Hours)
Examines the political activities which resulted in the passage of the nation's second Civil Rights policy, the 1960 and 1964 Civil Rights Acts, the 1965 Voting Rights Act and the 1968 Fair Housing Act. The course will analyze the underpinnings, leadership, and political strategies of the Civil Rights Movement.
Prerequisites: Six hours in human behavior and junior standing
POLS 414/514 Politics of Education (3 Credit Hours)
The question of power, often ignored by education policy analysts and researchers, is a principal focus of this seminar.  Issues ranging from the role of education in political socialization and the politics of affirmative action and equal opportunity are examined.
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
POLS 415/515 Women and Politics in America (3 Credit Hours)
Examines women's place in political theory and the practice of politics in the United States. A major focus is to trace the development of women's political rights, the impact of public policy on the lives of American women and to see how women influence and participate in the political process.
Prerequisites: POLS 101S or permission of the instructor
POLS 418 Quantitative Methods (3 Credit Hours)
A survey of and practicum in the basic techniques of quantitative research, including the logic of empirical research, the identification of data sources, and the use of appropriate statistical techniques.
Prerequisites: POLS 101S and a grade of C- or better in POLS 308
Pre- or corequisite: A grade of C- or better in STAT 130M
POLS 419 Jurisprudence: History of Legal Theory (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of the history of legal thought and developments of natural law, as well as an in-depth analysis of legal positivism and realism.  Particular attention is paid to American legal philosophy.
Prerequisites: POLS 100S or POLS 101S or POLS 102S
POLS 420W/520 Southern Politics (3 Credit Hours)
This seminar focuses on the politics of the American South from the 1940s to the present.  Emphasis is on introducing students to contrasting explanations and analysis about the politics of the American South. This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: POLS 101S and a grade of C or better in ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C , or permission of the instructor
POLS 421/521 International Law (3 Credit Hours)
Surveys major areas of public international law (e.g., laws of warfare, law of the sea, conflict resolution, etc.).  Emphasizes the relationship between international law and international politics.
Prerequisites: Six hours in political science or permission of the instructor; POLS 325W is recommended
POLS 424/524 International Organization (3 Credit Hours)
Course provides a basis for understanding the role and importance of international organizations in contemporary international relations.  Focuses on development and history of global organizations, with particular emphasis on the United Nations, and regional and functional organizations.
Prerequisites: POLS 100S and POLS 325W and additional internationally-focused course or permission of the instructor
POLS 425W Cybersecurity Strategy and Policy (3 Credit Hours)
This writing intensive course explores cybersecurity policy and strategy and introduces students to the essentials of strategy development and policy making in cybersecurity. Topics considered include planning principles in cyber strategy; risk management and cybersecurity policy; the connections between cybersecurity policies, businesses, and governmental institutions; the knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to develop and implement cybersecurity policy; the social, political and ethical implications that arise in cybersecurity policies and strategies; strategies to assess cybersecurity policy; and the ties between national security and cybersecurity policy.
Prerequisites: ENGL 110C and ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C with a grade of C or better and CYSE 200T or IT 200T or POLS 101S
POLS 426 Cyber War (3 Credit Hours)
This course explores the national security dimensions of cybersecurity and examines cyber war in international relations. Exploration of cyber war begins with an examination of cybersecurity as a component of national security and investigates the topics of U.S National Cybersecurity and other national approaches to cyber war.  The topics of cyber deterrence, cyber as a military domain, the roles of international organizations in cyber war, cyber terrorism, the role of social media, and information warfare will be discussed.  The international dimension of cybersecurity is also discussed.
Prerequisites: CYSE 200T or POLS 101S or permission of the instructor
POLS 434/534 Political Participation in the United States (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of current theories and research on political behavior, conventional and unconventional modes of political participation, and the impact of participation on the political system.
Prerequisites: POLS 100S or POLS 101S or POLS 102S
POLS 435/535 Chinese Politics (3 Credit Hours)
A study of origins of the Chinese revolution; development and functions of the Chinese Communist Party;  government institutions; the defense establishment; evolution of foreign policy; and post-Mao political and economic reforms.
Prerequisites: POLS 100S and POLS 102S or permission of the instructor
POLS 436 Japanese Politics (3 Credit Hours)
A study of Japan's historical political development and social patterns; government institutions; problems of the constitution; and foreign and defense policy.
Prerequisites: POLS 100S and POLS 102S or permission of the instructor
POLS 437/537 International Relations in East Asia (3 Credit Hours)
A study of contemporary issues (political, economic, and strategic) in the East Asia area; the interactions of China, Japan, the United States, and the former Soviet republics in East Asia.
Prerequisites: POLS 100S
POLS 438/538 Law in Literature and Film (3 Credit Hours)
Students will study law as seen through the lens of fiction.  Assignments draw heavily from classic and contemporary novels, short stories, plays, films, and perhaps television.  As these artistic representations of law in action are explored, short theoretical readings help focus on questions of philosophy, politics, and justice.  The course also explores the relationship between fiction and reality through appellate opinions and contemporary literature on the American legal system.  The goal is to come to a better understanding of the potential blessings, dangers, and limitations of law.
Prerequisites: POLS 101S or permission of the instructor
POLS 439/539 International Relations of African States (3 Credit Hours)
This course aims to expose students to an examination of the workings of international politics from the viewpoint of Africans and African states. International relations have tended to look at the world from the viewpoint of its most powerful states. Yet, most the world's states - notably in Africa - are weak but have great potential global impact.
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
POLS 442/542 Twentieth Century Dictatorships (3 Credit Hours)
A study of the Fascist, Nazi, Stalin and Mao regimes and the forces that brought them to power and sustained them, including a study of the impact of their policies on their people and neighboring states.
Prerequisites: Six hours in human behavior and junior standing or permission of the instructor
POLS 445 Globalization: Dynamics and Implications (3 Credit Hours)
Explores the essential characteristics of globalization and its implications for social relations and existing institutions.
Prerequisites: Three hours in economics and 6 hours in political science
POLS 455/555 The Politics of Climate Change (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of the science of climate change and how United States political actors have responded to this global environmental challenge.
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
POLS 458T Weapons of Mass Destruction in Global Security (3 Credit Hours)
Since the end of the Cold War, weapons of mass destruction have emerged as one of the most dangerous and contentious issues in international affairs. The course examines how these weapons are made, how they proliferate, and how they are controlled.
Prerequisites: POLS 100S
POLS 461 Seminar in European Politics (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on one specific European country such as France, Germany, the United Kingdom, etc.  Examination of trends and events which most influenced  the evolution of domestic politics and foreign relations from World War II to the present.
Prerequisites: POLS 100S or POLS 102S and POLS 314 or POLS 332W
POLS 462 Ethnic Conflict in the New Global Order (3 Credit Hours)
Ethnically based conflict is presently a pervasive worldwide phenomenon.  This course examines internal and external factors causing ethnic conflicts and mechanisms for resolving or mitigating such conflicts.
Prerequisites: Six hours in human behavior
POLS 466/566 Politics of the Middle East (3 Credit Hours)
An analysis of the political processes throughout the region and in selected nations of the Middle East.  Topics to be discussed include inter-Arab relations, the Arab-Israeli conflict, the Iran-Iraq rivalry and foreign power involvement in the Middle East.
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
POLS 470 African Americans and Foreign Affairs (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on race, ethnicity, and the role and influence of African Americans in international affairs and American foreign policy making.  It investigates the activities of African Americans in the international arena.  The emphasis is on how African Americans have participated and the results of that participation from the era of slavery to Barack Obama.
Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of the instructor
POLS 480W Senior Seminar in International Studies (3 Credit Hours)
Interdisciplinary research and preparation of a senior thesis in international studies This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C , senior standing in the BAIS degree program or permission of the instructor
POLS 481 Seminar in American Politics (3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics in American politics designed to permit small groups of qualified students to work on subjects of mutual interest which, due to their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly.
Prerequisites: Junior standing in political science
POLS 493 Great Decisions (1 Credit Hour)
An examination and discussion of critical world issues based upon the Foreign Policy Association's Great Decision Series.
Prerequisites: POLS 100S or POLS 101S
POLS 495/595 Topics in Political Science (1-3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics in political science which, due to their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly.
Prerequisites: Appropriate survey course or permission of the instructor
POLS 496/596 Topics in Political Science (1-3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics which, due to their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly.
Prerequisites: Appropriate survey course or permission of the instructor
POLS 497/597 Independent Research in Political Science (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent research in political science under the supervision of a faculty member.
Prerequisites: Senior standing or permission of the instructor
POLS 498 Tutorial Work-Special Topics (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent research in political science under the supervision of a faculty member.
Prerequisites: Senior standing or permission of instructor
Search catalog
