No Undergraduate courses found.
PADM 634 Regional Planning (3 Credit Hours)
The course analyzes the origins of regional planning agencies, current organizational structures, financing and functional activities.  The focus is on the application of the systems approach to metropolitan planning issues.  This latter objective is achieved through participation in exercises dealing with economics, transportation and land-use allocation modeling.
PADM 651 Administrative Theory I: The Context of Public Administration (3 Credit Hours)
Introduction to the profession of public administration; the evolution and development of the field, the role of organizations in contemporary American government, and the roles of politics and administration.  The course also provides an introduction to the necessary skills for successful graduate study.
PADM 652 Administrative Theory II: The Process of Public Administration (3 Credit Hours)
Introduction to management in the public sector.  Topics include: organizing public agencies, managing people and work groups, introduction to organizational systems (human resources, budget, and information systems), and effective leadership and decision-making processes.
PADM 653 Wicked Problems in Public Administration (3 Credit Hours)
This course deals with some of the many complex, intractable, or "wicked" problems that public and non-profit sector professionals will struggle with during the course of their careers. In the context of public administration, a wicked problem is a set of conditions and circumstances that seems to defy resolution or even amelioration because of the incredibly complex nature of the situation.
PADM 668 Internship/Field Experience (1-6 Credit Hours)
Required of all students without previous experience in government service.  Supervised work experience in a public agency. A written report will be required.
PADM 671 Public Budgeting and Financial Management (3 Credit Hours)
The purpose of this course is to examine the institutions, principles, and techniques of national, state, and local budgeting processes and financial administration.  The course explores the allocation as well as the re-distributive role of government and the market.  While applying information technology, students will analyze the practices and fundamental concepts of government budgeting, financial management, and public finance, with an emphasis on revenue, expenditure, capital budgeting and debt structures.
PADM 695 Advanced Topics (1-3 Credit Hours)
Topics vary each semester.
PADM 696 Directed Readings (1-3 Credit Hours)
Specifically planned readings for the graduate student who wishes to pursue special interests outside the scope of formal studies. Supervised on an individual basis.
PADM 698 Directed Research (1-6 Credit Hours)
Supervised research on a specific program. A written report will be required.
PADM 699 Thesis (3-6 Credit Hours)
An approved research project, written under the supervision of a faculty committee, in which the student demonstrates the capacity to design and complete independent scholarly investigation.  The completed project must be approved by the thesis committee.
PADM 701 Public Policy and Evaluation (3 Credit Hours)
Exploration of key theories and approaches to public policy. This course covers all phases of the policy process, from formulation to evaluation, with particular focus upon the substance, political dynamics, and evolution of public policy.
PADM 704 Methods of Public Program Evaluation (3 Credit Hours)
Examination of various methodologies for designing and conducting program evaluation and research. Experimental, quasi-experimental and nonexperimental procedures will be covered. (Cross listed with PPCM 704 )
Prerequisites: PADM 753 /PADM 853
PADM 708 Urban and Regional Economic Development (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the theory and practice of urban and regional economic development.  The tools, institutions, and analytical techniques of urban and regional economic development are examined in light of relevant public policy issues.
PADM 711 Tools of Government (3 Credit Hours)
Analysis of the range of administrative tools and strategies for the delivery of government services. Emphasizes new administrative alternatives under conditions of constant change.
PADM 712 Emergency Management and Policy (3 Credit Hours)
Explores policy and regulatory issues of emergency management; intergovernmental responsibilities and relationships among local, state and federal agencies in an "all hazards" approach to preparing and responding to manmade and natural disasters. Examines challenges faced by local, state, and federal managers during a large scale disaster.
PADM 713 Fundraising for Nonprofit Organizations (3 Credit Hours)
This course introduces students to fundraising principles of nonprofit organizations with an emphasis on different types of philanthropy, fundraising theories and practices, and motivations of givers. They will develop skills in creative problem solving for fundraising practice while learning to analyze and evaluate the fundraising process and methods. Additionally, students will develop the ability to synthesize and integrate current information and emerging ideas into a fundraising strategy and to think critically and analytically about a variety of fundraising perspectives.
PADM 714 Public-Private Partnerships (3 Credit Hours)
An in-depth analysis of the forces behind the privatization movement. Examines the context of privatization, the theoretical and empirical arguments on both sides of the debate, and the different forms of privatization practiced in the U.S. The course draws on a wide range of disciplines in a quest for an understanding of the privatization phenomenon-political science, public administration, public policy, sociology, economics, management, and others. (Cross listed with PPCM 714 )
PADM 715 Management and Governance of Nonprofit Organizations (3 Credit Hours)
Successful nonprofit organizations require substantial capability in key areas of management such as developing a strong board of directors, recruiting and motivating talented staff and volunteers, creating a strategic plan, and wisely managing fiscal and human resources. The course is built around understanding nonprofit governance structures, relationships, and responsibilities as well as unique management issues associated with them. This course addresses these topics from theoretical and practitioner perspectives.
PADM 716 Introduction to Nonprofit Sector (3 Credit Hours)
This course offers a broad introduction to the study and practice of the nonprofit sector. The course explores the history, scope, and significance of the nonprofit sector as it relates to philanthropy, voluntary action, civil society, and civic engagement.
PADM 717 Nonprofit Financial Management (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides students with the knowledge to become effective financial managers by giving them practical applications of theory and skill-building in fiscal and accounting processes of nonprofit organizations.
PADM 718 Public Sector Contract Administration (3 Credit Hours)
Examines the actions that must be taken following the award of a contract, including assurance of required outcomes, assurance of compliance, proper contract launch, proper contract close-out, and documentation and carrying forward lessons learned. Connections to steps that must be taken in the other two phases of the procurement process are noted. (Course is cross listed with PPCM 718 )
PADM 719 Leadership (3 Credit Hours)
Examines leadership through theoretical and practice-based frameworks. Offers analytical and intellectual examination and reflection on core issues in the practice of leadership. These objectives will be achieved through open discussion, honest self-assessment, experiential exercises, and observation of real-life leadership practice. (Cross listed with PPCM 719 )
PADM 720 Public Human Resources Management (3 Credit Hours)
Examines the basic framework of the public personnel system beginning with the legal requirements imposed by federal and state laws and regulations.  General considerations of policy and procedures development, the organization of the public personnel system, the adoption of the personnel ordinance, the determination of various levels of employee status and the coverage of the personnel system are included.
PADM 721 Transportation Policy (3 Credit Hours)
Lecture, 3 hours; 3 credits.  This course focuses on surface transportation policy and planning, and highways and roads in particular.  Topics include local, state and federal policies, public involvement in transportation planning, transportation and highway finance, privatization and public-private partnerships, critical issues and policy questions.
PADM 723 Ethics in Public Administration (3 Credit Hours)
This course reviews the theory and application of ethics in the public sector, identifying public values and how they apply in the administration of government.  It reviews sources of values employed in public sector decision-making, and reviews how values in public administration are managed and applied.  Systems of professional ethics are reviewed in the context of public professions.  Case studies and best practices are examined to help the student understand the application of administrative ethics in public management.
PADM 724 Administration of Human Services (3 Credit Hours)
Analysis of human services involving direct client/agency interaction.  Problems of discretion and control are examined as alternative service delivery strategies which can deal with these problems.
PADM 725 Government, Society, and Business (3 Credit Hours)
This course studies the interdependencies and interactions among three broad entities - business, government, and society - in the delivery of public services, paying special attention to their implications for public policy.
Prerequisites: six completed hours of graduate work in MBA or MPA program
PADM 726 Introduction to Public Procurement (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides an overview of procurement and contract management as a core function in public sector organizations. The course introduces the student to how properly-aligned, best practice acquisitions can support public entities' strategic goals. Challenges and opportunities for all stakeholders are addressed. Special attention is given to ongoing changes in public procurement. (Cross listed with PPCM 726 )
PADM 727 Public Procurement and Project Management (3 Credit Hours)
Course covers each phase of the public procurement project cycle, with an emphasis on tools and techniques to manage a public procurement project. (Cross listed with PPCM 727 )
PADM 728 Public Sector Contract Planning and Formation (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides insight into why and how public sector contracts should be planned and formed properly. A strong emphasis is placed on the strategic role that procurement can play in public sector organizations and how procurement planning and source selection, in particular, fit into that role. (Cross listed with PPCM 728 .)
PADM 731 Public Sector Procurement Law and Ethics (3 Credit Hours)
This course surveys the laws and ethics applicable to public sector procurement and contract management. A theoretical and problem-based, interdisciplinary approach is used to address the major legal and ethical issues that arise when public sector organizations plan, form, and administer contracts. Attention is given to the role of professionalization in socializing appropriate ethics. (Cross listed with PPCM 731 )
PADM 734 Negotiation and Dispute Resolution (3 Credit Hours)
The course provides conceptual and practical skills in negotiations. It examines the underlying cultural, legal, and organizational issues and problems that affect managing human resources in the workplace. (Cross listed with PPCM 734 )
PADM 735 History of Race and Government Institutions (3 Credit Hours)
U.S. history is examined through a racial lens in the context of public administration: policies, laws, and court actions at the federal, state, and local levels. Three historical eras will be examined from colonial days to the present: Pre-Civil War Slavery, Jim Crow Segregation, and Mass Incarceration/ Colorblind Racism. Two transitional periods will also be covered: Post-Civil War Reconstruction and the Civil Rights Movement.
PADM 736 Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion: A Public Administration and Public Policy Perspective (3 Credit Hours)
Across every economic and social indicator, there are disparities that are based on race, gender, and culture. In the U.S., some of the disparities have been created by explicit and intentional discrimination that was incorporated into the U.S. Constitution and various federal, state, and local laws. Other disparities grew out of unconscious or unintended impacts of federal, state, and local laws, policies, and practices. This course will examine these issues within the context of public administration, developing an awareness of inequities and the skills to dismantle discriminatory policies and practices.
PADM 739 Cultural Competency (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on the growing challenges and opportunities created by our interconnected world and the knowledge and abilities necessary to lead through situations in which there are misunderstandings or conflicts rooted in differences. The course explores the structure and dynamics of all forms of diversity in public, non-profit, and governmental organizations, the resulting implications for organizational health, and the critical role of cultural-competent leadership.
PADM 740 Community Participation and Civic Engagement (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the importance of social, economic, cultural, religious, and civic organizations in building or restoring communities. The course focuses on the revitalization, restoration, or upgrading of communities, cities, and localities or neighborhoods within or adjacent to cities, by the residents themselves. Viewed through the lens of social capital theory, the course further explores examples of short- and long-term change accomplished by community members on their own, within organizations, or in partnership with government officials.
PADM 745 Managing Development and Change in Organizations (3 Credit Hours)
Examination of the theory and practice of organization development.  Participants will take the role of change agent and public manager and apply a range of organization development techniques to public agency situations while giving attention to the particular cultural, political, legal and organizational characteristics of public organizations.
PADM 746 Capstone Seminar in Public Administration (3 Credit Hours)
Presents an integrated approach to the field of public administration, and examines the political, administrative, and social implications of administrative choices.  The emphasis of the course will be a case approach to public administration and public management.
Prerequisites: Completion of 30 hours in the MPA program or permission of instructor
Pre- or corequisite: PADM 651 , PADM 671 , and PADM 701
PADM 750 Performance Measurement and Management (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on performance-based management approaches in public and non-profit settings. It addresses the performance measurement and management process, the identification of appropriate performance measures, and the implementation of a performance measurement system, as well as managing for performance.
PADM 752 Introduction to Data Analysis (3 Credit Hours)
An introduction to statistics for students in Public Administration and related fields. Emphasis is placed on the quantitative analysis of demographics and factors affecting public administrators in the field.
PADM 753 Research Methods in Public Administration (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines various methods for designing and conducting research, collecting and organizing data, and disseminating results.  Information technology and applications to practical management problems and public research topics are emphasized.
PADM 760 Collaboration in Public Administration (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of the fundamental concepts of collaborative governance in the field of public administration and public policy. Emphasis is placed on the government and/or nonprofit management and process of collaborative problem solving and policy implementation in cross-sector and intra-sector environments.
PADM 772 Public Financial Management (3 Credit Hours)
Examination of public sector financial principles, practices, and processes. A public manager's perspective of the decision making and practices of managing public funds. Introduction to governmental accounting practices. Emphasis on analyzing financial statements for decision making. Extensive use of Excel spreadsheet. Exploration of public financial management research and the link between public financial management practices and public fiscal and monetary policies.
PADM 780 Local Government Management (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides students with the professional knowledge, skills, and abilities to engage successfully with local governments from the following perspectives: as a generalist public administrator, as a local government specialist, and as a citizen, non-profit leader, or businessperson. In addition, this course provides students with the theoretical and policy context within which local governments operate. Students will master that knowledge by researching how local governments use those concepts in every day administration.
PADM 781 Intergovernmental Management (3 Credit Hours)
Analysis of relationships among federal, state, and local governmental units in the delivery of governmental programs. Focus on intergovernmental issues in urban metropolitan regions. (Cross listed with PPCM 781 )
PADM 785 Social Marketing in the Public Sector (3 Credit Hours)
The course is an examination of the principles, practices, and use of Social Marketing - the use of techniques to influence a target audience to voluntarily accept, reject, modify, or abandon a behavior for the benefit of individuals, groups, or society as a whole - in the public sector. In addition, the course will familiarize students with current and potential uses of Social Marketing to accomplish public sector goals.
PADM 800 Colloquium - Public Administration and Policy (1 Credit Hour)
This course introduces students to the field, the academy, the School of Public Service faculty, and university resources; it also sets program expectations for students. Topics include: research process, developing a research agenda, critical analysis of literature, professional development, comprehensive exams process, and academic v. nonacademic careers.
PADM 801 Policy Theory (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides an overview of theories of public policy. It provides a solid foundation for knowledge in this area. Students will be introduced to the leading theories, frameworks, and models that help describe and explain the policy process. The course examines the historical heritages of the policy sciences and the bases upon which public policy discussions take place at all stages of the policy process.
PADM 802 Public Administration I (3 Credit Hours)
The course reviews the history of administrative theory and the broad topics of administrative theory. The course is intended to address the impact that organizational structure and political/social environment have on administration. This course will not cover every theory, model, or framework relevant to public administration. However, this course is intended to provide the doctoral student with the theoretical foundations of public administration and understanding of their historical context in the field.
PADM 803 Public Administration II (3 Credit Hours)
This course is a continuation of PADM 802 and is intended to provide a framework for doctoral students to develop their understanding of public and nonprofit management organizational practices in the American context. The course is not exclusively directed to any one level of government, but includes national, state, and local management and organizational behavior. The course provides material on the concepts and perspectives on managerial rationale, responsibilities, decision making, and approaches to administration.
Prerequisites: PADM 802
PADM 804 Multi-Sector Administration (3 Credit Hours)
The course explores public administration from Neoliberalism and beyond to focus on the development of multi-sector administration, where multi-sector is defined as policy action across governments, nonprofit organizations, for-profit organizations, and/or grass-roots groups and individuals. The course is expected to cover the methods, challenges, and consequences of multi-sector administration. This course will also address the management and evaluation of multi-sector relationships. This is not an introduction to organizational structure or theory.
PADM 805 Research Design (3 Credit Hours)
The course examines advanced research design and evaluation methods used in public administration and management research. Experimental, quasi-experimental, and non­experimental procedures in the context of urban settings will be emphasized. Includes usage of various statistical software.
PADM 806 Multivariate Analysis in Public Administration (3 Credit Hours)
This course explores the proper use, calculation, and interpretation of multivariate statistics as commonly found in the literature in public administration. The course will prepare students to choose the appropriate statistical tools, generate testable hypotheses, correctly apply the statistical tool, analyze the results, and present and interpret the results of those tests in a manner appropriate for public administration in the field.
Prerequisites: FOUN 722
PADM 808 Urban and Regional Economic Development (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the theory and practice of urban and regional economic development. The tools, institutions, and analytical techniques of urban and regional economic development are examined in light of relevant public policy issues.
PADM 810 Policy and Program Evaluation (3 Credit Hours)
Examination of various methodologies for designing and conducting public policy and program evaluation and research. Experimental, quasi-experimental and non-experimental procedures will be covered.
PADM 811 Tools of Government (3 Credit Hours)
Analysis of the range of administrative tools and strategies for the delivery of government services. Emphasizes new administrative alternatives under conditions of constant change.
PADM 812 Emergency Management and Policy (3 Credit Hours)
Explores policy and regulatory issues of emergency management; intergovernmental responsibilities and relationships among local, state and federal agencies in an "all hazards" approach to preparing and responding to manmade and natural disasters. Examines challenges faced by local, state, and federal managers during a large scale disaster.
PADM 813 Fundraising for Nonprofit Organizations (3 Credit Hours)
This course introduces students to fundraising principles of nonprofit organizations with an emphasis on different types of philanthropy, fundraising theories and practices, and motivations of givers. They will develop skills in creative problem solving for fundraising practice while learning to analyze and evaluate the fundraising process and methods. Additionally, students will develop the ability to synthesize and integrate current information and emerging ideas into a fundraising strategy and to think critically and analytically about a variety of fundraising perspectives.
PADM 814 Public-Private Partnerships (3 Credit Hours)
An in-depth analysis of the forces behind the privatization movement. Examines the context of privatization, the theoretical and empirical arguments on both sides of the debate, and the different forms of privatization practiced in the U.S. The course draws on a wide range of disciplines in a quest for an understanding of the privatization phenomenon-political science, public administration, public policy, sociology, economics, management, and others.
PADM 815 Management and Governance of Nonprofit Organizations (3 Credit Hours)
Successful nonprofit organizations require substantial capability in key areas of management such as developing a strong board of directors, recruiting and motivating talented staff and volunteers, creating a strategic plan, and wisely managing fiscal and human resources. The course is built around understanding nonprofit governance structures, relationships, and responsibilities as well as unique management issues associated with them. This course addresses these topics from theoretical and practitioner perspectives.
PADM 816 Introduction to Nonprofit Sector (3 Credit Hours)
This course offers a broad introduction to the study and practice of the nonprofit sector. The course explores the history, scope, and significance of the nonprofit sector as it relates to philanthropy, voluntary action, civil society, and civic engagement.
PADM 817 Nonprofit Financial Management and Fund Raising (3 Credit Hours)
Lecture 3 hours; 3 credits.  This course provides students with the knowledge to become effective financial managers by giving them practical applications of theory and skill-building in fiscal processes and fundraising of nonprofit organizations.
PADM 818 Public Sector Contract Administration (3 Credit Hours)
Examines leadership through theoretical and practice-based frameworks. Offers analytical and intellectual examination and reflection on core issues in the practice of leadership. These objectives will be achieved through open discussion, honest self-assessment, experiential exercises, and observation of real-life leadership practice.
PADM 819 Leadership (3 Credit Hours)
Examines leadership through theoretical and practice-based frameworks. Offers analytical and intellectual examination and reflection on core issues in the practice of leadership. These objectives will be achieved through open discussion, honest self-assessment, experiential exercises, and observation of real-life leadership practice.
PADM 820 Public Human Resources Management (3 Credit Hours)
Examines the basic framework of the public personnel system beginning with the legal requirements imposed by federal and state laws and regulations. General considerations of policy and procedures development, the organization of the public personnel system, the adoption of the personnel ordinance, the determination of various levels of employee status and the coverage of the personnel system are included.
PADM 823 Ethics in Public Administration (3 Credit Hours)
This course reviews the theory and application of ethics in the public sector, identifying public values and how they apply in the administration of government. It reviews sources of values employed in public sector decision-making, and reviews how values in public administration are managed and applied. Systems of professional ethics are reviewed in the context of public professions. Case studies and best practices are examined to help the student understand the application of administrative ethics in public management.
PADM 824 Administration of Human Services (3 Credit Hours)
Analysis of human services involving direct client/agency interaction. Problems of discretion and control are examined as alternative service delivery strategies which can deal with these problems.
PADM 825 Government, Society and Business (3 Credit Hours)
An overview of business-government society interactions, with special attention to the influence of public policy and corporate strategy on corporate social responsibility. An important theme is the ethical component of management decision making.
PADM 826 Introduction to Public Procurement (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides an overview of procurement and contract management as a core function in public sector organizations. The course introduces the student to how properly-aligned, best practice acquisitions can support public entities' strategic goals. Challenges and opportunities for all stakeholders are addressed. Special attention is given to ongoing changes in public procurement.
PADM 827 Public Procurement and Project Management (3 Credit Hours)
Course covers each phase of the public procurement project cycle, with an emphasis on tools and techniques to manage a public procurement project.
PADM 828 Public Sector Contract Planning and Formation (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides insight into why and how public sector contracts should be planned and formed properly. A strong emphasis is placed on the strategic role that procurement can play in public sector organizations and how procurement planning and source selection, in particular, fit into that role.
PADM 831 Public Sector Procurement Law and Ethics (3 Credit Hours)
This course surveys the laws and ethics applicable to public sector procurement and contract management. A theoretical and problem-based, interdisciplinary approach is used to address the major legal and ethical issues that arise when public sector organizations plan, form, and administer contracts. Attention is given to the role of professionalization in socializing appropriate ethics.
PADM 834 Negotiation and Dispute Resolution (3 Credit Hours)
The course provides conceptual and practical skills in negotiations. It examines the underlying cultural, legal, and organizational issues and problems that affect managing human resources in the workplace.
PADM 835 History of Race and Government Institutions (3 Credit Hours)
U.S. history is examined through a racial lens in the context of public administration: policies, laws, and court actions at the federal, state, and local levels. Three historical eras will be examined from colonial days to the present: Pre-Civil War Slavery, Jim Crow Segregation, and Mass Incarceration/ Colorblind Racism. Two transitional periods will also be covered: Post-Civil War Reconstruction and the Civil Rights Movement.
PADM 836 Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion: A Public Administration and Public Policy Perspective (3 Credit Hours)
Across every economic and social indicator, there are disparities that are based on race, gender, and culture. In the U.S., some of the disparities have been created by explicit and intentional discrimination that was incorporated into the U.S. Constitution and various federal, state, and local laws.  Other disparities grew out of unconscious or unintended impacts of federal, state, and local laws, policies, and practices.  This course will examine these issues within the context of public administration, developing an awareness of inequities and the skills to dismantle discriminatory policies and practices.
PADM 839 Cultural Competency (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on the growing challenges and opportunities created by our interconnected world and the knowledge and abilities necessary to lead through situations in which there are misunderstandings or conflicts rooted in differences. The course explores the structure and dynamics of all forms of diversity in public, non-profit, and governmental organizations, the resulting implications for organizational health, and the critical role of cultural-competent leadership.
PADM 840 Community Participation and Civic Engagement (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the importance of social, economic, cultural, religious, and civic organizations in building or restoring communities. The course focuses on the revitalization, restoration, or upgrading of communities, cities, and localities or neighborhoods within or adjacent to cities, by the residents themselves. Viewed through the lens of social capital theory, the course further explores examples of short- and long-term change accomplished by community members on their own, within organizations, or in partnership with government officials.
PADM 845 Managing Development and Change in Organizations (3 Credit Hours)
PADM 850 Performance Measurement and Management (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on performance-based management approaches in public and non-profit settings. It addresses the performance measurement and management process, the identification of appropriate performance measures, and the implementation of a performance measurement system, as well as managing for performance.
PADM 860 Collaboration in Public Administration (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of the fundamental concepts of collaborative governance in the field of public administration and public policy. Emphasis is placed on the government and/or nonprofit management and process of collaborative problem solving and policy implementation in cross-sector and intra-sector environments.
PADM 872 Public Financial Management (3 Credit Hours)
Examination of public sector financial principles, practices, and processes. A public manager's perspective of the decision making and practices of managing public funds. Introduction to governmental accounting practices. Emphasis on analyzing financial statements for decision making. Extensive use of Excel spreadsheet. Exploration of public financial management research and the link between public financial management practices and public fiscal and monetary policies.
PADM 880 Local Government Management (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides students with the professional knowledge, skills, and abilities to engage successfully with local governments from the following perspectives: as a generalist public administrator, as a local government specialist, and as a citizen, non-profit leader, or businessperson. In addition, this course provides students with the theoretical and policy context within which local governments operate. Students will master that knowledge by researching how local governments use those concepts in every day administration.
PADM 881 Intergovernmental Relations (3 Credit Hours)
Analysis of relationship among federal, state, and local governmental units in the delivery of governmental programs. Focus on intergovernmental issues in urban metropolitan regions.
PADM 885 Social Marketing in the Public Sector (3 Credit Hours)
Analysis of relationships among federal, state, and local governmental units in the delivery of governmental programs. Focus on intergovernmental issues in urban metropolitan regions.
PADM 895 Advanced Topics (3 Credit Hours)
Advanced topics in public administration.
PADM 898 Directed Research (3 Credit Hours)
Supervised research on a specific problem. A written report is required.
PADM 899 Dissertation (1-12 Credit Hours)
An approved research project, written under the supervision of a faculty advisor, in which the student demonstrates the capacity of design and completes independent applied research. The completed project must be approved by the dissertation committee.
PADM 998 Master's Graduate Credit (1 Credit Hour)
This course is a pass/fail course for master's students in their final semester. It may be taken to fulfill the registration requirement necessary for graduation.  All master's students are required to be registered for at least one graduate credit hour in the semester of their graduation.
PADM 999 Doctoral Graduate Credit (1 Credit Hour)
This course is a pass/fail course doctoral students may take to maintain active status after successfully passing the candidacy examination.  All doctoral students are required to be registered for at least one graduate credit hour every semester until their graduation.
Search catalog
