RMI - Risk Management and Insurance
RMI - Risk Management and Insurance
Graduate Courses
RMI 317 Principles of Risk Management and Insurance (3 Credit Hours)
Recommended elective for non-business as well as business majors. The primary focus of this introductory course is on evaluating life, health, retirement, property, liability and personnel exposures to loss and analyzing the methods for managing these risks. Risk management and insurance techniques for dealing with potential losses to individuals and organizations will be emphasized. Classwork and a group project will also cover emerging risks, such as cyber risk, and technologies disrupting the industry. Students receiving a B or better in this course can have it count as the CPCU 500 course of the Chartered Property-Casualty Underwriter (CPCU) professional designation.
Prerequisites: A declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office of the Strome College of Business
RMI 367 Cooperative Education (1-6 Credit Hours)
Available for pass/fail grading only. May be repeated for credit up to a maximum of 6 credits. Approval for enrollment and allowable credits are determined by the risk management and insurance advisor and Career Development Services in accordance with the policy for granting credit for Cooperative Education programs.
Prerequisites: A declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
RMI 368 Insurance Internship (1-3 Credit Hours)
A faculty supervised, professionally oriented project. Approval for enrollment and allowable credits is determined by the Risk Management advisor.  A transfer student must have completed one semester at Old Dominion University.
Prerequisites: A declared major in risk management and approval of the Risk Management advisor
RMI 410 Life and Health Insurance (3 Credit Hours)
This course uses a broad-based financial planning approach in considering the nature and importance of individual life and health risks and uses of individual life and health insurance in treating these risks. The implications of various legal, tax, and accounting considerations on businesses and individuals are discussed. The course also provides an overview of the operational aspects of life insurers, including organization, underwriting, actuarial, reinsurance, marketing, investment, taxation, and accounting functions. Cases are employed.
Prerequisites: RMI 317 or permission of the instructor
RMI 411 Employee Benefit Planning (3 Credit Hours)
This course considers the ability of group insurance and other private pooling mechanisms to alleviate the financial problems arising from death, disability, medical treatment and retirement. Primary emphasis on design, tax and administrative characteristics as they relate to employer-sponsored benefit programs. Cases are employed.
Prerequisites: RMI 317 or permission of the instructor
RMI 412 Property & Liability Insurance Company Operations (3 Credit Hours)
The course provides a broad overview of the operational activities and current problems of property and liability insurance companies, including organization, regulation, pricing, underwriting, claims, reinsurance, marketing, investment, and accounting functions. Classwork and a group project will also cover emerging risks, such as cyber risk, and technologies disrupting the industry. Students receiving a B or better in this course can have it count as the CPCU 520 course of the Chartered Property-Casualty Underwriter (CPCU) professional designation.
Prerequisites: RMI 317 or permission of the instructor
RMI 413 Risk Analysis and Control (3 Credit Hours)
Recommended elective for non-business as well as business majors. This course focuses on the risk analysis and control phases of the risk management process in business and governmental organizations. Particular attention is paid to the recognition, measurement, and treatment of traditional and emerging risks, risk financing options other than commercial insurance, and decision making under conditions of uncertainty. Classwork and a group project will also cover emerging risks, such as cyber risk, and technologies disrupting the industry.
Prerequisites: RMI 317 or equivalent or permission of the instructor
RMI 443 Enterprise Risk Management (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed as a capstone course for students majoring or minoring in risk management and insurance. The class will be introduced to all aspects of enterprise risk management (ERM), which is the emerging paradigm in risk management. Classwork and a group project will also cover emerging risks, such as cyber risk, and technologies disrupting the industry.
Prerequisites: RMI 317 and either RMI 412 or RMI 413 or permission of instructor
RMI 495 Selected Topics in Risk Management and Insurance (3 Credit Hours)
For advanced students in risk management and insurance.
Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor
No Graduate courses found.
