Path to Success: Navy Veteran Earns Degree through ODUGlobal
By Jonathan Heeter | Oct 17, 2024
Image
Navy veteran Safiou Olossoumare ’24 balanced family, service and education to achieve her American dream through ODUGlobal.
Safiou Olossoumare ‘24 didn’t know if she made the right choice.
Olossoumare, then 20 years old, arrived in New York City in 2015 from West Africa, hoping to eventually give her family a better life. But that dream felt far away as she worked different jobs while trying to make community college work for her at the same time.
“I had doubts. I wondered, ‘What am I doing?,’” said Olossoumare, who came to the U.S. on a green card. “But I adapted and started to feel more comfortable. That’s when I found the path that would help me move forward.”
Olossoumare decided to join the Navy to earn her citizenship and give back to the country that had become her home. As she completes her military service, Olossoumare has already achieved one of her biggest goals: bringing members of her family to America. Now, she’s ready to begin the civilian chapter with her recently earned bachelor’s in business administration through ODUGlobal.
“I didn’t quit. I didn’t give up,” Olossoumare said. “I had my motivation: helping my family and serving my new country. The military was the stepping stone for me to succeed in this country of great opportunities.”
Olossoumare found another route to success with ODUGlobal.
When she started her degree program, with a focus in accounting, Olossoumare found the ability to schedule her classes around her military work.
Life took on new challenges during her coursework. Her military service allowed her to bring her family to Virginia, and she welcomed two children—a boy and a girl—during her time at ODU. The flexibility of ODUGlobal’s asynchronous program proved essential, unlocking a path to graduation she might not have had otherwise.
“There’s no way I could’ve gotten through school without me being able to fit my schedule around my life,” Olossoumare said. “ODU provided me with the skill and knowledge and showed me how to think critically and effectively solve complex problems.”
Getting her degree in May seemed very far away as a child in Lomé, the capital of the African nation Togo. She grew up with seven siblings and a large family that didn’t have significant financial means. However, her parents valued education, and Olossoumare said she was an outstanding student. She speaks English, French and German. After finishing regular schooling and some college in Togo, her family sent Olossoumare to New York City with a green card and a dream of helping the family out.
She started community college while washing dishes at a restaurant and took another job as a security guard. But joining the military, she thought, would provide the straightest path to citizenship and help her family.
“Joining the military was a sacrifice, but it felt like an easy decision once I focused on my end goal,” Olossoumare said. “When you put your mind to it, anything is possible.”
Olossoumare became a Naval logistics specialist, ordering supplies and managing inventory. She also served on the USS Leyte Gulf, a recently decommissioned cruiser, and the USS Whidbey Island, a dock landing ship. Her military work intersected with her career interest, so working towards a degree in accounting fit perfectly. She completed her associate degree in business administration and management at Tidewater Community College before transferring to ODU.
Olossoumare brought her mother to live in Chesapeake, Virginia in 2022. She also brought a brother from Togo and helped enroll him at Tidewater Community College. Olossoumare’s husband was an ODU student studying computer science. He plans to restart his studies after joining the Navy himself.
After finishing her undergraduate studies, Olossoumare transitioned to the Navy Individual Ready Reserve in September to fulfill her military service obligation. She’s already dabbled in civilian life with an accountant internship with the City of Norfolk this past summer. She wants to work as a business analyst or logistics manager to utilize her military expertise.
But up next for Olossoumare will be furthering her education. She plans to get her MBA through ODUGlobal, feeling empowered to advance to a graduate program.
“I saw a path that other people found to become successful here,” Olossoumare said. “And I thought I could do it. Now, I have kids that are American. I have my citizenship. I brought family with me. I continued my education. I’m overly blessed.”
Old Dominion University
Gornto Hall, Norfolk, VA 23529
Footer
