3.0
C. Maximum Time Frame
No student may exceed 150% of the published length of their educational program. Students will be notified and will need to appeal for financial aid when they are approaching 150%. Students must complete their degree within a specified amount of time. This standard will depend on the student's enrollment status and degree. Old Dominion University requires an appeal at 125% of degree hours. When a student exceeds 125%, they will be required to submit an appeal for the following semester to determine if they will continue to receive financial aid.
*Note: Transfer credit hours are included in the calculation.
Satisfactory Academic Progress Review
The Office of Student Financial Aid will conduct a review of Satisfactory Academic Progress at the end of each academic year. Email notifications of SAP standard(s) not met will be sent to the student’s ODU email account or mailed to the student's permanent address.
Please note that students who have not received financial aid in previous years but are applying for financial assistance for the first time will also be held to the requirement of maintaining Satisfactory Academic Progress. Satisfactory Academic Progress is reviewed for all semesters of a student’s enrollment regardless of whether the student was eligible for financial assistance during a term. If students exceed the maximum allowable time, they are not meeting satisfactory academic progress, thus, all aid will be suspended.
Financial Aid suspension does not prohibit you from continuing your education at Old Dominion University. It does prohibit you from receiving financial aid until you again meet the standards for Satisfactory Academic Progress.
Financial Aid Suspension
Students who fail to meet satisfactory academic progress are placed on financial aid suspension. You have the option to appeal this suspension. An appeal must be based on significant mitigating circumstances that seriously affected academic performance. The decision of the appeal will be sent via email to the students ODU email account. *Note: Please make sure your email account is activated.
Financial Aid Probation
For students who are successful in their appeal, aid will be reinstated on a probationary basis for one payment period/term. Emails will be sent to students on financial aid probation advising them of the conditions needed. The financial aid office will review the student's record at the end of the semester to determine their outcome for future semesters. At the conclusion of the probation term, the student must be meeting the school's SAP standard in order to qualify for further Title IV Funding. If it is determined that a student will need more than one probationary term, the student must be placed on an academic plan.
The Appeal Process
Appeals must be submitted 10 days after notification of appeal or by the deadline on the appeal form. These dates vary from year to year; however, the deadline will be the Friday before classes begin.
The deadlines are listed on the SAP appeal form.
Deadlines for appeal submission for summer 2024 and 2024-25 academic years
2023-24
Summer 2024 - June 28, 2024, regardless of summer session(s) enrolled.
2024-25
Fall term - August 23, 2024
Spring term - January 10, 2025
Summer - June 27, 2025
Students awaiting a response from the SAP Appeal Review Committee are responsible for paying their tuition and other fees by the payment deadline to avoid late and collection fees.
The decision of the Financial Aid Office is FINAL and cannot be appealed.
The complete packet including the advisor’s portion and all documentation needed must be submitted or appeal will be denied.
The University will consider appeals for uncontrollable events, students having trouble adjusting to college, special circumstances that happen in a student's life such as death of a family member, student illness, transition to college issues, being called to the military, etc. The student must describe what impact the circumstance had on academics, what the student has done to address the impact and how the student plans to be successful. If the student is not yet prepared to vigorously focus on academics with assistance, if necessary, the student should not submit an appeal.
Some examples include but are not limited to:
Death in the family. State how this person was related to you (i.e. parent, spouse, sibling, etc.). You must provide a copy of the death certificate or related documentation.
Disabling illness or injury to the student. Please provide supporting documentation from your medical provider.
Disabling illness or injury of immediate family member that required your care. Please provide supporting documentation from your medical provider.
Emotional or mental health issue (for student) that required professional care. Please provide supporting documentation from your medical provider, social worker or other professional.
Other special circumstance beyond your control (transition that may lead to depression, anxiety, and other problems that can be documented, divorce/separation, natural disaster, extreme change in financial or legal circumstances, etc.)
Documentation or evidence that supports the reason(s) must be included with your appeal. This might include a letter from a doctor, court documents, death certificates or copies of university documents, layoff notices, foreclosure notices, etc. Upload supporting documentation.
Use the SATISFACTORY ACADEMIC PROGRESS APPEAL FORM to submit your appeal.
State clearly why you failed to meet the condition(s) cited. Upload documentation if necessary.
State what has changed that will allow you to demonstrate SAP progress at the end of the next evaluation period.
To confirm your extenuating circumstance(s), you must upload documentation from an objective third party (e.g. physician, counselor, lawyer, social worker, teacher, religious leader, academic advisor).
Meet with your academic advisor or department chair to complete the REQUEST FOR WRITTEN EVALUATION OF ACADEMIC PERFORMANCE form.
NOTE: If you submit your appeal without the advisor or department chair's evaluation, your appeal will not be considered.
Submit your complete appeal and upload all supporting documents by the deadline. Failure to submit the complete appeal will result in cancellation of aid.
ALLOW TWO WEEKS for the review of this appeal and receipt of the decision notification. If your appeal is approved, the decision notification will outline the conditions of your contract for reinstatement of aid eligibility. The contract is binding and your academic progress will be reviewed at the end of the enrollment period specified. If your appeal is denied, the decision notification will specify the conditions for future consideration for financial aid eligibility.
Students awaiting a response from the SAP Appeal Review Committee are responsible for paying their tuition and other fees by the payment deadline to avoid late and collection fees.
The decision of the financial aid review committee is FINAL and cannot be appealed.
If the appeal is unsuccessful, an email notification will be sent notifying you of the decision and information on how to re-establish eligibility if applicable.
If you would like to file an appeal for reinstatement of your eligibility for financial aid, please follow these directions:
Use the SATISFACTORY ACADEMIC PROGRESS APPEAL FORM to write your appeal. State clearly why you failed to meet the condition(s) cited. Attach documentation if necessary. State what has changed that will allow you to demonstrate SAP progress at the end of the next evaluation period. To confirm your extenuating circumstance(s), you must attach documentation from an objective third party (e.g. physician, counselor, lawyer, social worker, teacher, religious leader, academic advisor). We realize that sharing personal information can be difficult. Be assured that your statement will remain confidential. Only financial aid personnel will review your appeal.
Meet with your academic advisor or the dean of your college to complete the REQUEST FOR WRITTEN EVALUATION OF ACADEMIC PERFORMANCE form. NOTE: If you submit your appeal without the advisor or dean’s evaluation, your appeal will not be considered.
Submit your complete appeal packet and all supporting documents within 14 days of receipt of the notification or prior to the deadline. Appeals must be submitted 10 days after notification of appeal or by the deadline on the appeal form.  These dates vary from year to year; however, the deadline will be the Friday before classes begin.  The deadlines are listed on the SAP appeal form. Failure to submit the complete packet will result in cancellation of aid. ALLOW TWO WEEKS for the review of this appeal and receipt of the decision notification. If your appeal is approved, the decision notification will outline the conditions of your contract for reinstatement of aid eligibility. The contract is binding, and your academic progress will be reviewed at the end of the enrollment period specified. If your appeal is denied, the decision notification will specify the conditions for future consideration for financial aid eligibility.
Students awaiting a response from the SAP Appeal Review Committee are responsible for paying their tuition and other fees by the payment deadline to avoid late and collection fees.
The decision of the financial aid review committee is FINAL and cannot be appealed.
If the appeal is unsuccessful, an email notification will be sent notifying you of the decision and also information on how to re-establish eligibility if applicable.
Re-Establishing Eligibility
Students may re-establish their eligibility for financial assistance by achieving the satisfactory progress standards. Keep in mind this will be at the student’s own expense as they are ineligible for financial aid. Sitting out a semester at Old Dominion University will not assist in re-establishing eligibility. Once the student has earned the required grade point average or completed the required credit hours, they must contact financial aid to request the reinstatement of their financial aid eligibility.
Students not making SAP at the end of the second year, but at the end of the subsequent grading period come into compliance with the school’s graduation requirements; will be considered making SAP beginning with the next grading period.
Withdrawing from Courses
Withdrawing from courses may impact your financial aid awards. Before withdrawing from class, you should contact the Financial Aid Office to determine the consequences.
Withdrawing from the University
Students who totally withdraw from the University and receive aid may owe the University money. Before withdrawing from the University, you should contact the Financial Aid Office to determine the consequences.
Withdrawing from all courses for two consecutive semesters may result in loss of financial aid eligibility.
Students who withdraw from all courses are subject to regulations regarding the Return to Title IV Funds requirement. If the date of complete withdrawal precedes the date on which 60% of the academic semester has been completed, a prorated portion of all Title IV student financial assistance will be due back to the federal programs. The University policy regarding tuition refunds following withdrawals is stated in the catalog and is independent of the Return to Title IV funds regulations. Students who withdraw from the University before 60% of the semester has elapsed should anticipate repaying a significant portion of the Title IV financial assistance. Additionally, students who failed to earn a passing grade during the term are subject to the same federal guidelines.
Transfer and Repeat Coursework
Accepted transfer credits must count as both attempted and completed hours.
Federal regulations limit the number of times a student may repeat a course and receive financial aid for that course. Ineligible repeated courses will be excluded from counting in the student’s enrollment for financial aid purposes.
A student may receive aid when repeating a course that was previously failed (received a failing or unsatisfactory grade), regardless of the number of times the course was attempted and failed providing you meet the Satisfactory Academic Progress standards.
A student may receive aid to repeat a previously passed course (grade of ‘D’ or higher) one additional time.  Once a student has completed any course twice with a passing grade (grade of ‘D’ or higher), he/she is no longer eligible to receive aid for that course.
This rule applies whether or not the student received aid for earlier enrollments in the course.
Important Note: The Financial Aid Office does not determine if a student may repeat a class, only whether a student may be eligible for financial aid for a repeat class. For more information on your academic program's policy regarding repeat coursework, contact your academic advisor. In addition, every repeated course affects Satisfactory Academic Progress calculations; all repeated courses are counted as attempted credit hours.
Remedial courses are counted; however, enrichment and ESL courses ARE NOT taken into consideration.
Federal Programs
Students must submit the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) to determine eligibility for all of the following federal financial aid programs.
Federal Direct Student Loan Programs
Old Dominion University participates in the William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan Program and thus receives loan funds directly from the U.S. Department of Education upon disbursement (payment) to eligible students. There are two kinds of loans:
William D. Ford Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loans
Available to eligible students regardless of financial need, but students will be required to pay all interest charges, including the interest that accumulates during deferments.
PLUS Loans for Graduate or Professional Students
Graduate or professional students are eligible to borrow under the PLUS Loan Program up to their cost of attendance minus estimated financial assistance in the Direct Loan programs. This requirement includes a determination that the applicant does not have an adverse credit history, repayment beginning on the date of the last disbursement of the loan. Applicants for these loans are required to complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) and must have applied for their annual loan maximum eligibility under the Federal Unsubsidized Stafford Loan Program before applying for a Graduate/Professional PLUS loan.
Conditions for Disbursement of Financial Aid
The Office of Student Financial Aid publishes a “Statement of Student Responsibility & Conditions for Release of Financial Aid” document each academic year. This statement is included with the initial award notification and is also accessible on the Financial Aid Office page of the University web site https://www.odu.edu/finaidoffice .  When students accept financial aid, they also acknowledge that they have read and agree to comply with the Statement. A limited sample of conditions is as follows:
Initial financial aid notices are based on the assumption that the student will enroll full time.
Students are required to communicate immediately with their counselors any changes in the enrollment level or student type during the period leading up to the beginning of each semester as they may impact the student's aid eligibility. Financial aid is based upon full-time (9 credits or more), three-quarter (6-8 credits), or half-time enrollment (4-5 credits). If a student's aid has been calculated based on an enrollment level different from the actual enrollment for that semester, the aid will not be released until the student has notified the counselor and the counselor has reviewed and recalculated aid eligibility. Financial aid eligibility changes when enrollment level changes. Students who drop courses are responsible for notifying the financial aid counselor immediately. It is the student's responsibility to notify the financial aid office if the student type changes (example: degree seeking to non-degree/certificate program).  Aid will be reduced accordingly, and financial aid already received will be due back to the University. This also applies to "balance-of-aid" payments made to students prior to dropping.
The student is responsible for repayment of any and all financial aid received if adjustments resulting from unreported or misreported information discovered through verification, third-party notices, account reviews, that lead to reductions in aid. Documents such as Federal Income Tax transcript, W-2 forms, Leave and Earning Statements, notices of SSI benefits, and Verification Worksheets may be required.  Other documents may be requested to confirm marital status or other information provide on the FAFSA during the verification process.
The student is responsible for reporting additional educational assistance received through sources other than the Financial Aid Office. Financial aid may be adjusted according to federal regulations as a result of additional educational assistance received and not reflected initially. The student bears responsibility for reporting any additional aid in the form of scholarships from outside sources, Vocational Rehabilitation Benefits, Graduate Tuition Scholarships, Veterans Benefits, Senior Citizen Tuition Waivers, Employer Assisted Tuition Payments, Third Party Payment Agreements involving any outside group or company, and all other forms of assistance. The student must report these external sources of financial assistance immediately to his/her financial aid counselor.
Federal Direct Student Loans and Federal Perkins Loans require Promissory Notes. Federal Direct Student Loan promissory notes may be signed online. Federal Perkins Loan Promissory Notes are produced by the Office of Student Financial Aid after all eligibility conditions have been met. Students must complete and sign the promissory notes and return them to the Financial Aid Office before the loan process can be completed. Entrance loan counseling is required of all first-time borrowers prior to release of loan proceeds.
A tentative or conditional financial aid package assumes a level of government appropriations which are frequently under-determined at the time of preparation. If legislative bodies fail to provide the anticipated funding level, it may be necessary to reduce or cancel certain types of aid, particularly grants. Students will be notified immediately if such changes become necessary.
The Office of Student Financial Aid reserves the right to review, modify or cancel financial aid at any time on the basis of new information affecting student eligibility, including but not limited to changes in financial resources, residence, academic status, or changes in the availability of funds.
Awards Based on Admission to the University
Annual and Endowed University Scholarships
Scholarships at Old Dominion University have been established through the generosity of individuals, organizations, and corporations to recognize outstanding academic performance and to assist students in pursuing their educational goals. Scholarship awards are based on a variety of criteria. For some awards, eligibility is entirely determined by academic merit or potential. Other requirements might include demonstrated financial need, field of study, state or city residency, graduation from a particular high school or participation in a specific program, organization or activity. Generally, recipients have earned at least a 3.4 grade point average (on a 4.00 scale) and are full-time, degree-seeking students.
The Scholarship Form for Continuing and Graduate Students is available for students who are:
Students who have a change in scholarship eligibility according to the Criteria Checklist (included in the Scholarship Form)
Continuing students who meet the above circumstances must complete and submit the form to:
Office of Student Financial Aid 2002 Rollins Hall Norfolk, VA 23529-0052
The form must be received by March 1st each year to be considered for scholarships for the following academic year. The information provided on the Form for Continuing and Graduate Students will be maintained and used for scholarship selection for the duration of the student’s attendance at Old Dominion University. It is not necessary to complete the form more than once during attendance at Old Dominion University, UNLESS the required information has changed. To determine eligibility for need-based scholarships, designated by an asterisk (*), students must also file the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) PRIOR to March 1st of the appropriate academic year for Continuing and Transfer students.
Selection procedures vary for these awards. All scholarships require admission to and enrollment in a degree program at Old Dominion University. For some scholarships, a portfolio, an audition or participation in a specific program may be required. The additional steps, if required, are summarized following each scholarship description.
Students will receive written notification of any scholarship for which they have been selected. Most scholarships will be awarded starting in April through August of each year.
College Scholarships
The College of Arts and Letters
The H. Lee Addison, III Scholarship in History was established by H. Lee Addison, III to assist a full time undergraduate or graduate student majoring in history that has a minimum GPA of 3.0.
The Eliot S. Breneiser Memorial Scholarship was established to assist a full-time music major in either the piano performance program or the music education program with a concentration in piano. Information concerning audition requirements is available from the Music Department. (AUDITION, PARTICIPATION) (757) 683-4061.
*The Dr. James V. D. Card Scholarship Fund was established by James V. D. Card to assist an undergraduate or graduate student who is majoring in English. The recipient must demonstrate financial need. (FAFSA.)
The Anita Clair Fellman Endowed Service Learning Scholarship was established to assist one or more full time or part-time graduates, or undergraduate students who participate in a service-learning project through the Department of Women’s Studies.  The recipient will be selected by the chair of the Women’s Studies Department and another Faculty member in the department.
The Lorraine '78 '83 and Dr. H. William Fink '34 Art Scholarship in Honor of Ken Daley was established to assist an incoming full-time graduate student in the MFA program. If there is no eligible graduate candidate who is qualified, the scholarship will be awarded to a rising senior in the BFA program who has a declared concentration in Print and Photo Media.  The scholarship is based on merit and review of student’s portfolio.
*The Harriet W. ’69 and Burl Fisher Endowed Scholarship in History is funded by an endowment that was established by Harriet and Burl Fisher given in memory of her aunt, Mabel Gresham Cones, and his grandmother, Renie Wright Fisher. Preference will be given to one or more full-time graduate students in history who maintain GPA of 3.5 and demonstrate financial need. (FAFSA)
*The Daniel E. Frank Memorial Scholarship Endowment for Blacksmithing and Metalwork was established to assist a full-time student enrolled in the College of Arts and Letters and classified as a sophomore, junior or senior.  Graduate students are also eligible for consideration.  The recipient must be enrolled in studio art, blacksmithing, metalwork, jewelry-making or equivalent courses.  The scholarship recipient must have a minimum grade point average of 3.0 or better and demonstrate financial need. (FAFSA)
The Friends of the ODU MFA Creative Writing Program Fellowship was established to assist a student enrolled in the MFA Creative Program in the College of Arts and Letters. The fellowship is based on merit and recipient must maintain a grade point average of 3.0.
*The Friends of Women’s Studies Scholarship is funded by an endowment in honor of Carolyn Rhodes for students majoring in women’s studies. Two scholarships are awarded: one to a graduate student seeking an M.A. in humanities and one to an undergraduate student. Graduate students must have a minimum grade point average of 3.50. Recipients can be full- or part-time students. (FAFSA)
*The Linda Hyatt Wilson Graduate Scholarship in China Studies was established by Linda Hyatt Wilson to assist a full-time graduate student who maintains a grade point average of 3.5, demonstrates financial need and is involved in the study of China’s culture, history economy, politics, or foreign relations. (FAFSA)
*The Barbara M. Gorlinsky Memorial Fine Arts Scholarship is made possible by an endowment the Gorlinsky family established in memory of their daughter. It is designed to assist students with financial need who are fine arts majors. Information concerning portfolio requirements is available from the Art Department. (PORTFOLIO, FAFSA) (757) 683-4047.
*The Amanda Kinzer Scholarship in Dance was established to assist full-time undergraduate or graduate student(s) studying in the College of Arts & Letters.  Preference will be given to a student(s) pursuing a degree in dance.  The recipient must have a minimum grade point average of 2.75 for undergraduate students and 3.0 grade point average for graduate students.
*The Ralph Jackson and Clara Jackson Kingsbury Memorial Scholarship Endowment was established to assist one or more undergraduate junior, senior and graduate student(s) majoring in English who has a cumulative GPA of 3.0 or better and demonstrates financial need. (FAFSA)
The Ashley Elizabeth Lawson Memorial Scholarship for Spanish Language Study Abroad was established to assist a student in the College of Arts and Letters enrolled in the Spanish Language Study Abroad Program at Old Dominion University. The recipient(s) must be full-time or part-time, Undergraduate or Graduate student.
The Marilyn Marloff and John Luker Dance Endowed Scholarship was established to assist a full-time undergraduate or graduate student(s) studying in the College of Arts and Letters who has a minimum grade point average of 2.75.  Preference will be given to student(s) pursuing a degree in dance.
The Perry Morgan Fellowship in Creative Writing established in 2005 by Frank Batten and is awarded to two or more first year full-time graduate students enrolled in the creative writing program. Recipients must maintain a minimum 3.5 GPA.
*The Harvey Ronald Saunders Memorial Endowed Scholarship was established by Mr. and Mrs. Louis M. Saunders to assist an undergraduate or graduate student majoring in the arts/fine arts with an emphasis in painting or drawing. The recipient must have a 3.00 minimum grade point average, demonstrate financial need and be a citizen of either the United States or Israel. Information concerning portfolio requirements is available from the Art Department. (PORTFOLIO, FAFSA) (757) 683-4047.
The Charles K. Sibley Art Scholarship is funded by an endowment made possible by contributions from the friends and patrons of the former Old Dominion University professor. Awards are to assist graduate or undergraduate students majoring in studio art or art history. Information concerning portfolio requirements is available from the Art Department. (PORTFOLIO) (757) 683-4047.
The David Scott Sutelan Memorial Scholarship is made possible by an endowment established by David, Charles, and May Scott Sutelan. The recipient will be seeking a master in fine arts in the creative writing program.
The Forrest P. and Edith R. White Endowed Scholarship Fund was established by Edith R. White to provide scholarships to students studying acting in the Old Dominion University Communication and Theatre Arts Department. (AUDITION)
The Joan Argyle Shambaugh Graduate Scholarship in English was established to assist students enrolled in the Master of Arts in English program within the Department of English in the College of Arts and Letters. The scholarship may be awarded to a full-time or part-time students who demonstrate financial need and maintains a grade point average of 3.0.  The recipient(s) may be on enrolled as an on-campus student or online student.
*The Jerri Fuller Dickseski Endowed Master of Arts in English Scholarship was established to promote graduate students pursuing a degree in the Master of Arts in English program with a concentration in Literature in the College of Arts and Letters. The scholar may be full or part-time, must maintain a 3.0 grade point average, and demonstrate financial need. (FAFSA)
The Anne Tunyogi & Ildiko (Togi) Foldvary Endowed Scholarship was established to assist full-time rising sophomore students up through graduate student classification majoring in either of the Departments of History, Political Science, Sociology or in the Graduate Program in International Studies of the College of Arts & Letters. The recipient must maintain a minimum grade point average of 3.25, and complete an essay submission of no more than two pages outlining the student’s interest in studies primarily relating to the historical, political, economic, ethnic, religious, cultural, linguistic and demographic forces in Central Europe, with particular focus on those of contemporary and historic Hungary in the Carpathian Basin, its neighbors and their indigenous ethnic Hungarian communities, especially, whenever possible, those living in Rumania’s western province of Transylvania.
The Strome College of Business
*The Jeffrey W. Ainslie Endowed Scholarship in Real Estate was established in 2006 by Jeffrey W. Ainslie to assist a full-time student in the Real Estate track in the Strome College of Business. The student must have a grade point average of 3.0 or higher and must demonstrate financial need. Preference will be given to the student with the highest GPA and demonstrating the greatest financial need. (FAFSA)
The Theordore F. and Constance C. Constant Fellowships are funded by an endowment that assists two full-time graduate students in the Strome College of Business.
*The Larry J. and Elizabeth J. Creef Endowed Scholarship was established as an endowment by Larry J. and Elizabeth J. Creef to provide a scholarship to a student with an interest in pursuing a career with the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), the CIA, the Department of Homeland Security, or other security agency of the U.S. government. The recipient must be a Virginia resident and a U.S. citizen, must demonstrate financial need, be a full-time student enrolled in the Strome College of Business, and must have declared a major in accounting. (FAFSA)
*The Kendra M. and Glen R. Croshaw Endowed Internship in Public Service was established to assist a graduate student enrolled in the Strome College of Business that is currently working in or planning a career in Public Service. This scholarship will fund payment for internships in the public service sector, e.g., governmental, non-profit, or public service-related businesses. The scholar must be a full or part-time student maintaining a minimum grade point average of 3.5 and demonstrate financial need. (FAFSA)
*The Adam Gilmore Endowed Scholarship in Accounting was established to assist a full-time entering graduate student in the M.S. Accounting Program. The recipient must hold an undergraduate degree from Old Dominion University and demonstrate financial need. (FAFSA)
*The Virginia Maritime Association/Carter T. Gunn Scholarship was established to assist undergraduate students enrolled in the Strome College of Business majoring in Maritime and Supply Chain Management and/or an MBA student pursuing a concentration in Maritime & Port Management and demonstrating financial need. (FAFSA)
*The James A. Hixon Endowed Scholarship was established by James A. Hixon to assist a full-time or part-time MBA student in the Strome College of Business. The student must have a cumulative GPA of 3.5 or better and demonstrate financial need. (FAFSA)
The Jesse and Sue Hughes International Accounting Scholarship was established by Dr. Jesse and Mrs. Sue Hughes to assist a full-time international student in the Strome College of Business who is a declared major in accounting with a focus on public sector financial management. Preference is given to a student at the graduate level, however, if there is not an eligible student at the graduate level, then an undergraduate student can be considered for the scholarship award.
The Jesse and Sue Hughes International Urban Studies and Public Administration Endowed Scholarship was established by Dr. Jesse and Mrs. Roselyn S. Hughes to assist a full-time international graduate student in the Strome College of Business   The recipient must be enrolled in the Department of Urban Studies and Public Administration with a focus in public sector financial management and has successfully completed a graduate level accounting course.  Secondary consideration will be given to an eligible undergraduate or graduate student in the Department of Urban Studies and Public Administration in the Department of Accounting with a focus in public financial management.
*The Max B. Jones Endowed Memorial Scholarship was established by Katherine Jones Long and Susan K. Jones, in memory of their father, to assist a full-time or part-time graduate student enrolled in the Strome College of Business. The student must be a Virginia resident, must have a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.0, and demonstrate financial need. (FAFSA)
*The Pamela C. Kirk ’88 and A. Russell Kirk Business Study Abroad Endowment was established to assist full- time undergraduate and graduate students enrolled in the Strome College of Business to participate in Strome College of Business faculty-led study abroad experiences or an ODU affiliated study abroad program approved by a committee if an ODU faculty-led program is not offered. Preference will be given to full-time undergraduate or graduate students that demonstrate financial need. (FAFSA)
The Charles H. and Mary Kathryn Rotert Scholarship is funded by an endowment established by Mr. and Mrs. Charles H. Rotert Jr. This scholarship is awarded to a deserving student in the Strome College of Business.
*The Kilmer Accountancy Scholarship Endowment was established to assist full-time undergraduate or graduate student(s) with a declared major in accounting. The recipient must demonstrate financial need. (FAFSA)
*The Scott and Lisa Thatcher Scholarship Endowment was established to assist a full-time undergraduate or graduate student with a declared major in finance who demonstrates financial need. (FAFSA)
The Wolfgang Pindur Endowed Scholarship in Applied Research is funded by an endowment given by the School of Public Service to assist a full-time or part-time master’s student (MPA or MUS) and/or a doctoral student (PhD in Public Administration and Urban Policy). An essay concerning the student’s commitment to public service will need to be provided. (Essay) (683-6856)
*The Tevangudi P. Radhakrishnan Endowed Scholarship was established by Rajesh Radhakrishnan to assist a full-time international student in the Strome College of Business.
The Susan (Merendino) Rowell Graduate Scholarship in Humanities was established in 2004 by Mrs. Susan S. Rowell to assist a graduate student majoring in humanities. The recipient must have a GPA of 3.4 or higher. This scholarship is renewable, and preference will be given to students with full-time enrollment status.
The Dr. Bruce L. Rubin Endowed MBA Scholarship was funded by former students of the Strome College of Business and friends. The scholarship recipient must be a newly- admitted and enrolled part-time student in the MBA program, have a minimum undergraduate grade point average of 3.2, and must have a minimum GMAT score of 600. Preference is given to a student who demonstrates volunteer service to the local business community.
The Marvin and Marilyn Simon Family Endowed Fellows Program in Business was established in 1994 to assist a master’s or doctoral degree-seeking candidate attending the Strome College of Business. The recipient will be a talented student studying in business who has outstanding academic ability.
*The John R. Tabb Scholarship was established by an endowment by the Tabb family in 2004. It is the desire of the family to assist a graduate student studying economic development with an international focus. The recipient must be a U.S. citizen with residency in North Carolina, Virginia, or Iowa. A minimum grade point average of 3.5 and demonstrated financial need is required. (FAFSA)
The Tidewater Association of Service Contractors (TASC) Scholarship was established to assist a full-time undergraduate or graduate student from the College of Engineering and Technology or Strome College of Business degree program. A full-time/part-time Masters Certification in Government Contracting program or any other certificate program supporting government contracting within the Continuing Education Departments may also be considered. The scholarship recipient must have a minimum grade point average of 3.0.
*The Shawn I. Tureman Scholarship Endowment was established to assist full-time undergraduate or graduate students in the Strome College of Business who demonstrate financial need. (FAFSA)
*The School of Accountancy Graduate Scholarship Fund was established to assist a graduate student(s) enrolled in the School of Accountancy or its successor program. The recipient may be selected based on merit and/or need. (FAFSA)
The Spore Scholars Endowed Scholarship was established to assist graduate student(s) enrolled in the Masters of Public Administration (MPA) program. The recipient(s) must maintain a grade point average of 3.25 or higher and must have professional experience in municipal government or the nonprofit sector.
The Strome College of Business General Scholarship was to assist a full-time student in the Strome College of Business.
The Karen and Jeff Tanner Scholarship Endowment for Doctoral Studies in Business was established to assist the top entering PhD student(s) as determined by the Graduate Program Director for Marketing and the Marketing Department Chair. Preference will be given to PhD student(s) with a concentration in marketing.
*The Joseph and Donna Vestal Endowed Scholarship was established by Joseph Vestal to assist a full-time student in the Strome College of Business, who has a GPA of 2.5 or higher and demonstrates financial need. The recipient must also be involved in campus student activities in a leadership program. (FAFSA)
*The Rolf Williams Memorial Endowed Scholarship was established by the Propeller Club of the United States, Port of Norfolk to assist a full-time undergraduate or full-time graduate student in the Strome College of Business. Student must be a rising senior with a declared major in Maritime and Supply Chain Management or a graduate student in the Master of Business Administration Program with a concentration in Maritime, Ports, and Logistics Management. Preference will be given to the student with greatest financial need and has at least a minimum of 3.0 cumulative GPA. (FAFSA)
The Darden College of Education & Professional Studies
The Anonymous Scholarship Endowment will assist a Ph.D. student in the Community College Leadership Program.
*The Coca-Cola Scholars Endowed Scholarship Fund was established to assist a student enrolled in a financial aid-eligible program leading to teacher certification, licensure, and/or enhancement. Consideration will be given to all students studying via Digital Learning who have a minimum of 58 credit hours with a 3.00 cumulative grade point average. The recipient must also demonstrate financial need. (FAFSA)
The Sarah E. Armstrong Scholarship Endowment was established in 2002 in memory of the donor, Sarah E. Armstrong. The recipient must be a full-time student who has been accepted into the College of Education and must have an overall cumulative 3.2 grade point average.
The Linda Zydron Bamforth Scholarship in Early Childhood Education was established by Linda Z. Bamforth to assist a graduate student majoring in the Early Childhood Program (Pre-K -3) of the Darden College of Education. The recipient must be a full-time or part-time graduate student, has a minimum GPA of at least 3.5, and demonstrate love of children and dedication to early childhood education-evidenced by a copy of the applicant’s last performance appraisal or student teaching evaluation.
The Dana Burnett Endowed Scholarship for Emerging Leaders in Higher Education was established to assist admitted students in the Darden College of Education enrolled in the Education Foundations and Leadership program interested in pursuing careers in higher education.
The Bennett’s Creek Sertoma Club Scholarship was established by the Bennett’s Creek Sertoma Club to assist a full-time graduate student seeking a degree in Speech Pathology. The recipient must have a grade point average of at least 3.0. Preference will be given to a student from Suffolk, Virginia.
*The Florence Pavlides Blankenship Memorial Scholarship was established to assist students who are admitted to the Master in Library and Information Studies degree program, within the Darden College of Education and Professional Studies. Recipients must demonstrate financial need. (FAFSA)
The Darden College of Education and Professional Studies General Scholarship was established to assist a full-time student in the Darden College of Education and Professional Studies.
Mark A. Forget Endowed Scholarship in Content Area Reading Education was established to assist a graduate student enrolled in a Reading Program within the Department of Educational Curriculum and Instruction with coursework in Content Area Reading Instruction. Student must have a 3.5 grade point average or better.
*The Annabel & Hal Sacks Family Endowed Scholarship was established to assist a full-time student in the Darden College of Education and Professional Studies who has met the requirements to enter into the teacher candidate internship at the graduate or undergraduate level.  The student must demonstrate financial need and must be taking classes on campus. (FAFSA)
The J. Frank Sellew Memorial Scholarship in Education was established by the friends and family of Mr. Sellew. The recipient must have a GPA of 3.0 and major in a teacher education program. The recipient must also meet all teacher education admission standards established by their program of study and the Darden College of Education.
*The John Albert Gay Scholarship is made possible by an endowment given by Dr. and Mrs. R. A. Gay (Florence Vaughan). This scholarship assists a graduate student majoring in special education. Preference is given to those specializing in the area of the emotionally disturbed child. Student must demonstrate financial need. (FAFSA)
The Jane M. Hager Literacy Scholarship was established to assist full-time or part-time graduate students in a Master's or Ph.D program with emphasis on literacy in the Darden College of Education. The recipient must maintain a minimum grade point average of 3.5. Selection will be based on recommendations of the Associate Dean of the Darden College of Education.
Sharon K. Mills Graduate Teaching Scholarship in Special Education was established to assist a student seeking a Master's Degree in Education, with Endorsement in Special Education: General Curriculum K-12 with an intent to teach students with disabilities or a Ph.D. with a major in Education and a concentration in Special Education student. The recipient must be an ODU alumna/alumnus that has taught in Virginia for at least a year.  The recipient must live in Virginia with the exception of a military spouse that is enrolled in ODU via the online program.
*The Peggy Woofter Hull Scholarship is made possible by an endowment given by Marie D. Woofter in memory of her daughter. It is awarded to a full-time doctoral student in education. Students are nominated by their graduate program director and are selected by the Office of the Dean of the Darden College of Education. Recipients must demonstrate financial need. (FAFSA)
*The Libbie and Albert Kaplan Scholarship in Special Education was established to assist a full-time graduate student(s) seeking their Master’s Degree in Special Education. Student(s) must demonstrate financial need and must have a 3.0 grade point average. (FAFSA)
*The Frank Hill Knecht Memorial Scholarship is made possible by an endowment given by Lena Rosa K. Conley, an alumnus and retired staff member of Old Dominion University, in memory of her brother. This scholarship assists a full-time graduate student in education. Preference is given to study in the area of special education. (FAFSA)
*The Ejner Emil "Karl" Karlsen Graduate Scholarship in Education was established to assist a student(s) seeking a graduate degree from the Darden College of Education. The student must be a Virginia resident qualifying for in-state tuition, must demonstrate financial need, and may be enrolled at full or part-time status. (FAFSA)
The R.W. and Betty MacDonald Endowed Scholarship in Language Arts & Social Studies Education was established by Dr. Robert H. MacDonald and Ms. Betty Joan Matson in memory of and named for their parents. The recipient must be a graduate student enrolled in Language Arts or Social Studies Education and must have a minimum grade point average of 3.0.
*¨The Sertoma Club of Norfolk Scholarship for Speech Pathology was established by the Sertoma Club of Norfolk to assist a Masters level first year full-time student enrolled in the Speech Pathology Program in the Darden College of Education. Student must have a minimum grade point average of 3.5 and demonstrate financial need. (FAFSA)
*The Strong Scholars Program Scholarship was created to assist students in their final year of study in an approved teacher education program. This scholarship will be awarded to undergraduate students who have exhibited outstanding success and enthusiasm in field experiences prior to the final year of the program OR graduate students whose life experiences prior to enrollment reveal the same traits. Students must have achieved a minimum GPA of 3.0 in the two semesters prior to their final year and must demonstrate financial need. (FAFSA)
*The Louise M. White Memorial Scholarship was established to assist a student pursuing a degree in the Darden College of Education and Professional Studies, first generation student that demonstrates financial need (FAFSA)
The Frank Batten College of Engineering and Technology
The Rao V. Arimilli and V. Lakshmi Arimilli Graduate Award in Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering was established to assist a PhD student in Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, or its successor. The recipient must be making adequate academic progress in their PhD program in Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering. Preference is given to PhD students pursing the thermal sciences.
The Batten College of Engineering and Technology General Scholarship was established to assist a full-time student in the Batten College of Engineering and Technology.
The Oktay Baysal Endowed Graduate Scholarship in Computational Engineering for Aerospace was established by Oktay Baysal to assist a graduate level Aerospace or Electrical and Computer Engineering student. The recipient must have a minimum grade point average of 3.0 and must have completed a minimum of 30 semester credit hours while attending ODU at either undergraduate and/or graduate level, or any combination thereof.
The BBG Incorporated Endowed Scholarship in Engineering was established by BBG Incorporated for a rising junior or senior majoring in Electrical Engineering, Electrical Engineering Technology, Computer Engineering, or Computer Engineering Technology who holds a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.5. The scholarship is also available to a graduate student majoring in Electrical Engineering or Computer Engineering with a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.0. The recipient will also be considered for an Engineering Cooperative Education/Intern position with BBG Incorporated.
The Civil and Environmental Engineering Visiting Council Graduate Scholarship in Engineering was established by The Civil and Environmental Engineering Visiting Council (CEEVC) in 2003. The recipient must be either full- or part-time civil or engineering graduate student who has a minimum graduate or undergraduate grade point average of 3.25. Transfer students from other colleges or universities are also eligible for consideration.
*The Bruce and Carol Conway Scholarship Endowment was established to assist a student that is pursuing a degree within the Batten College of Engineering & Technology. The recipient must demonstrate financial need. (FAFSA)
The Day-Helmick Family Endowed Scholarship in Engineering was established to assist a student in the Batten College of Engineering and Technology.
The Dewberry Endowed Scholarship was established to assist full-time students in the Batten College of Engineering and Technology in the civil engineering, electrical engineering, or mechanical engineering disciplines.
*The Dr. Robert A. and Ronnie Slocum Magoon Scholarship for Aerospace Engineering was established by Robert A. Magoon to assist a graduate student majoring in Aerospace Engineering. Scholarship recipient must demonstrate financial need. (FAFSA)
The Newport News Shipbuilding and Huntington Ingalls Industries Scholars Program was established to assist rising junior, senior and/or graduate students who are declared in a STEM major related to engineering, analytics, information technology, and/or computer sciences. Student must maintain a minimum undergraduate grade point average of 2.0, and a minimum graduate grade point average of 3.0.  The recipient must be a U.S. citizen or permanent resident. First preference will be given to military- affiliated student or student veterans. Second preference will go to students interested in working and living in Hampton Roads.
The Prabhu Endowed Graduate Scholarship in Mechanical Engineering was established to assist graduate level Mechanical Engineering student with a minimum grade point average of 3.0 at the undergraduate or graduate level. The scholar(s) must be a full-time student or equivalent if registered as a Graduate Assistant. Preference will be given to international students interested in research and other scholarly activities.
*The Christopher Kelly Rapp Memorial Scholarship in Civil & Environmental Engineering was established to assist a student with a declared major in Civil and Environmental Engineering who has graduated from a Virginia High School and demonstrates financial need. (FAFSA)
*The Rollie Dubbe’ Engineering Scholarship is funded by an endowment to assist a full time graduate engineering student who holds a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.0. The scholarship recipient must be enrolled in the civil engineering program with a preference in geo-technical engineering. Must demonstrate financial need (FAFSA).
The Stuart H. Russell Memorial Scholarship is made possible by an endowment established by the estate of Olive L. Spicer. The scholarship is awarded to a deserving student in the Frank Batten College of Engineering and Technology with particular preference given to a student in the Electrical and Computer Engineering Department with an interest in electronics.
The Tiwari Endowed Graduate Scholarship in Mechanical Engineering was established by Surendra N. Tiwari. The recipient must be a graduate level Mechanical Engineering student and be enrolled full-time or equivalent if registered as a Graduate Assistant. Must have a minimum Undergraduate or Graduate GPA of 3.0 and preference is given to an international student interested in scholarly activities and research.
The Triton International Enterprises Scholarship Endowment was established to assist full-time undergraduate or graduate student(s), enrolled in the Frank Batten College of Engineering and Technology (BCET), born or a documented permanent resident from the country of Turkey with preference given to student(s) residing in a city OTHER THAN Istanbul, Ankara, Izmir, Bursa, Antalya or Adana.
*The Clarke and Susan Vetrono Endowed Scholarship is funded by an endowment established by Clarke and Susan Vetrono to assist one undergraduate and one graduate student with an intending or declared major in the Batten College of Engineering and Technology. Both undergraduate and graduate student must be enrolled full-time and demonstrate financial need. Undergraduate student must have a minimum GPA of 2.75 and preference will be given to a student with learning disabilities. Graduate student must have a minimum of 3.0 GPA. (FAFSA)
*The Edward L. White Endowed Scholarship was established by Edward L. White, Jr. and Margaret W. Moore to assist a computer engineering student. The recipient must be a Norfolk resident, have a minimum 3.30 grade point average, and demonstrate financial need. (FAFSA)
The George C. Winslow Scholarship is made possible by an endowment to assist a graduate or undergraduate student who has demonstrated financial need and has obtained at least a 2.50 grade point average while pursuing a degree in mechanical engineering. (FAFSA)
The Anthony B. Woodell and Paul A. Woodell Aerospace Engineering Scholarship was established to assist a senior taking a senior concentration in aerospace engineering or pursuing an aerospace minor within The Batten College of Engineering and Technology. Preference will be given to the same student to continue their studies at ODU by pursuing a master's degree or Ph.D. in aerospace engineering. Preference will be given to full-time students, awarded on merit and/or financial need, and the student must maintain a grade point average of 3.0 at both undergraduate and graduate levels.
*The Captain Joseph F. Yurso Scholarship Endowment was established to assist students in the Batten College of Engineering and Technology who demonstrate financial need and are in good academic standing. (FAFSA)
The College of Health Sciences
The Thomas Charles Auclair (’78) Scholarship is made possible through an endowment given by Mr. and Mrs. George E. Auclair in memory of their son. The scholarship supports a student pursuing studies in environmental health.
The Bennett’s Creek Sertoma Fishcher-Grandy Endowed Scholarship was established to assist a full-time graduate student seeking a degree in Speech Pathology. The recipient must have a grade point average of at least 3.0. Preference will be given to a student from Suffolk, Virginia.
The College of Health Sciences General Scholarship was established to assist a full-time student in the College of Health Sciences.
*The DPS, Inc. Graduate Dental Hygiene Endowed Scholarship was established by DPS, Inc. to assist a full time first or second year graduate dental hygiene student that has admitted into the Old Dominion University Dental Hygiene Program. The scholarship recipient must demonstrate financial need and hold a minimum GPA of 3.0.  (FAFSA)
*The Echternach Scholarship was established to assist a graduate student enrolled in the School of Physical Therapy. The recipient must have a minimum grade point average of 3.0 and must demonstrate financial need. An essay submission is required based on a topic chosen by the scholarship committee from the School of Physical Therapy. (FAFSA)
*The Friends of Dental Hygiene Endowed Scholarship was established by Mrs. Linda Fox Rohrer in 2004. Recipients must be either full-time graduate or undergraduate students. The scholarship will be awarded to a deserving student in the School of Dental Hygiene. The recipient must also demonstrate financial need (FAFSA).
*The Gene W. Hirschfeld Scholarship is supported by an endowment given by the former chair of the Department of Dental Hygiene and Dental Assisting. The scholarship is awarded to undergraduate or graduate students who demonstrate financial need and are enrolled in the Dental Hygiene Program. (FAFSA)
The Kate and George Maihafer Scholarship in Physical Therapy was established by George Maihafer to assist full-time graduate students majoring in Physical Therapy who have a minimum GPA of 3.25.  Students eligible for the scholarship may apply for the scholarship starting in the spring semester of their first year of study.  Students interested in the scholarship must submit an essay no longer than 500 words to the Physical Therapy Curriculum Committee describing their career goals within the physical therapy profession after graduation.  The scholarship is to be awarded in the fall semester.
*The George Maihafer Scholarship in Physical Therapy Endowed Scholarship was established to assist full-time graduate students enrolled in the School of Physical Therapy.  The recipient(s) must maintain a grade point average of 3.0 and demonstrate financial need. (FAFSA)
*Dr. Karen Royall Endowed Scholarship for Physical Therapy Students was established to assist a full-time graduate student enrolled in the Physical Therapy Program (or its successor).  Preference is given to a student with an interest in pediatrics from the Hampton Roads Region of Virginia with a minimum GPA of 3.0.  Student must complete an essay (no longer than 500 words) describing their reasons for pursuing a career in pediatric physical therapy and the experiences that led to this decision to the Physical Therapy Scholarship Committee.
*Linda Fox Rohrer Endowed Scholarship for Dental Hygiene was established to assist full-time graduate or undergraduate students. The scholarship will be awarded to a deserving student in the School of Dental Hygiene. The recipient must also demonstrate financial need (FAFSA).
* The Linda Fox Rohrer Graduate Dental Hygiene Endowed Scholarship was established to assist a full time first or second year graduate dental hygiene student that has admitted into the Old Dominion University Dental Hygiene Program. The scholarship recipient must demonstrate financial need and hold a minimum GPA of 3.0.  (FAFSA)
*Sentara Scholars College of Health Sciences Annual Scholarship was established to assist an in-state undergraduate or graduate student enrolled in a healthcare or healthcare-related program. Student(s) must demonstrate financial need, be in compliance with the institution's Student Code of Conduct and must be in good academic standing. (FAFSA)
The Dr. Deanne Shuman Endowed Scholarship in Health Services was established to assist students with a regular admission status into the Ph.D in Health Services Research program on the basis of complete and fully evaluated credentials and recipient must be in good academic standing.  The recipient must have a minimum grade point average of 3.25, be enrolled as a full-time student, and preference is given to dental hygienists interested in teaching and research.  Students interested in this scholarship must submit an essay no longer than 500 words to the College of Health Science’s Ph.D Advisory Committee describing his/her career goals in the health services research field after graduation.
The Sharon C. Stull Oral Health Community Impact Scholarship was established to assist all enrolled dental hygiene student(s) in the BSDH and MSDH programs. Interested student(s) must have a minimum grade point average of 3.0 and must submit an application packet to the Dental Hygiene Scholarship Committee.  The packet should contain information that describes his/her leadership, volunteer and extra-curricular initiatives to increase oral health literacy in the community and include a letter of support from impacted volunteer/community organization(s).
The College of Sciences
The Dr. Hussein Abdel-Wahab Memorial Scholarship was established to assist a graduate student majoring in Computer Science.
The Sarah E. Armstrong Science Scholarship Endowment was established in 2002 in memory of Sarah E. Armstrong. The recipient must be a full-time student who has been accepted into the College of Sciences and must have an overall cumulative 3.2 grade point average.
The Virginia S. Bagley Endowed Scholarship is made possible by Mrs. Bagley’s estate and is awarded to a graduate or undergraduate student in the Department of Biological Sciences.
The Richard T. and Nancy P. Cheng Award in Computer Science was established to assist one graduate student and one or more undergraduate student(s) enrolled in the Department of Computer Science in the College of Sciences. The graduate scholar must be in good academic standing and making good progress on his/her degree. The undergraduate scholar(s) may be awarded up to the extent funds are available and must have a minimum grade point average of 3.5.
The Dr. Allen K. Clark Endowed Scholarship in Chemistry was established to assist a full-time undergraduate or graduate student majoring in chemistry or organic chemistry.  Preference will be given to a student who is an affiliate of the American Chemical Society. The recipient must maintain a grade point average of at least 3.0.
Lee Entsminger Scholarship for Coastal Geology was established to assist a student emphasizing the Geosciences.  If no such student is available, the department chair may recommend any student enrolled or about to enroll in graduate studies in the department of Ocean, Earth, and Atmospheric Sciences. Recipient(s) must be in good academic standing and maintain a 3.0 grade point average or higher.
*The Hampton Roads Maritime Scholarship is funded by an endowment from the Hampton Roads Maritime Association and is given to a graduate student in the Department of Ocean, Earth, and Atmospheric Sciences with financial need. (FAFSA)
The Neil and Susan Kelley Endowed Scholarship Fund, established by Neil Kelley in 2001, provide financial support to a graduate student pursuing a Master of Science in Oceanography. The scholarship is awarded strictly on merit and may be renewed annually.
The Harold G. Marshall and Vivian J. Marshall Scholarship in Biology is funded by an endowment given by Harold G. Marshall and Vivian J. Marshall. This scholarship is provided to assist a full-time graduate student in the Department of Biological Sciences with a specific concentration in ecology.
The Brian Donald Diederich and Flavia Alexandra Osorhean Scholarship Endowment for Doctoral Research in Nuclear Physics was established to provide an award to an incoming experimental or theoretical nuclear physics Ph.D. student.  Second priority is to provide an award to an existing experimental or theoretical nuclear physics Ph.D. student.  Third priority is to provide an award to an incoming or existing Ph.D. student in another field within the Department of Physics.
The Nick Savage Scholarship was established by Anne Raymond Savage to assist a full- time undergraduate or graduate student majoring in an area of science that involves field work and the study of plant life.  Preference will be given to a student who is entering or returning to the field of teaching science.  Student must maintain a grade point average of 3.0.
The Travis Priest Family Endowment was established to assist an undergraduate or graduate student in good academic standing.  The recipient must work with the Systems Group within the Department of Computer Science in the College of Sciences.
*The Jacques S. Zaneveld Endowed Scholarship was established by Dr. Jacques S. Zaneveld to assist a graduate student in the Department of Ocean, Earth, and Atmospheric Sciences of the College of Sciences. The recipient must demonstrate a need for funding in the preparation of his/her dissertation in the field of biological oceanography. (FAFSA)
The School of Nursing
The Atlantic Anesthesia Endowed Scholarship for Nurse Anesthesia Students was established to assist full-time nurse anesthesia students in good standing.  The scholarship will support tuition for any given semester of enrollment.
*The Bon Secours Hampton Roads Health System Endowed Scholarship for Graduate Nursing Students was established to assist a full- time graduate student(s) enrolled in the Old Dominion University Nursing Program.  The recipient(s) must demonstrate financial need and are encouraged to participate in a clinical experience with a minimum of 120- 250 clinical hours depending on program of study at a Bon Secours Hampton Roads Health System facility, or its successor.  The student(s) will agree to placement in an ambulatory, acute, or long-term care depending on applicability to course of study. (FAFSA)
*The Chesapeake Regional Medical Center Nursing Endowed Scholarship was established by the Chesapeake Regional Medical Center to assist a full time undergraduate or graduate student enrolled in Old Dominion University’s Nursing Program. The student must demonstrate financial need and must agree to accept 120 clinical hours at Chesapeake Regional Medical Center, or its successor. (FAFSA)
*The Joseph Fleischmann Scholarship Endowment was established to assist a full-time undergraduate sophomore, junior, senior or graduate student enrolled in pre-med or nursing major. Preference is given to a student pursuing medical research.  The recipient must maintain a minimum GPA of 3.0 and must demonstrate financial need. (FAFSA)
*The Paul W. Imogene M. "Jean" Lowe Endowed Nursing Administrator/Executive Scholarship was established to assist students enrolled in the School of Nursing graduate administrator or executive programs.  The recipients must demonstrate financial need, must submit an essay about their desire for an advanced nursing degree, prior nursing practice experience, and aspirations for a nursing administrative/executive leadership position, and maintain a grade point average of 3.0. (FAFSA)
The Barbie Morgan Endowed Scholarship for Nurse Anesthesia Students was established to assist full-time senior nurse anesthesia student(s).  Students interested in the scholarship must submit an application to the Graduate Nursing Awards Committee.  The application packet should describe his/her volunteer activities, include a letter of support from the volunteer organization(s), and provide evidence of demonstrated clinical excellence as reported by preceptor feedback and evaluations.
The School of Nursing General Scholarship Fund was established to assist full-time student(s) in the School of Nursing.
The Graduate School
The Alumni Association Outstanding Scholar Fellowships were established in 1984. The fellowships are awarded to two graduate students in good academic standing who are attending Old Dominion University on a full-time or part-time basis. One fellowship must be awarded to an Old Dominion University alumnus/alumna who has been admitted as a full-time student to a graduate program at the University.
The Graduate School General Scholarship was established to assist a full-time student in the Graduate School. The recipient must demonstrate extraordinary academic merit and must maintain a grade point average of 3.5 or higher.
The Meredith Construction Company Scholarship is made possible by an endowment given by the Meredith Construction Co. Inc., Meredith Realty, et al., and members of the Meredith family. The award is given to a graduate student demonstrating academic merit in his/her chosen curriculum.
Military Awards
Army Reserve Officer Training Corps (AROTC) participants may qualify for scholarships. More information on application procedures and program requirements is available from the faculty of the Department of Military Science. (PARTICIPATION) (757) 683-3663.
Naval Reserve Officer Training Corps (NROTC) participants may qualify for full or partial scholarships. More information on application procedures and program requirements is available from the faculty of the Department of Naval Science. (PARTICIPATION) (757) 683-4744.
Other Awards (General)
The Bannon Foundation Quasi-Endowed Scholarship was established to assist four students of the Eastern Shore of Virginia with their commuter expenses.
The Nancy Topping Bazin Scholarship was established by the Friends of Women’s Studies to assist a graduate student in women’s studies.
*The John R. Burton Jr. Scholarship is made possible by an endowment given by John R. Burton Jr. This scholarship assists students who demonstrate financial need. Preference is shown to high school graduates who have been reared in the Hope Haven Children’s Home. (FAFSA)
*The Robert Claytor Memorial Scholarship is funded by an endowment from the friends of Robert Claytor for a student who demonstrates financial need, according to federal needs analysis. (FAFSA)
The Charles H. Eure Memorial Scholarship is awarded to a marine science or engineering student who has a 3.00 grade point average and is of sound moral character. Preference will be given to a STASR (South Tidewater Association of Ship Repairers) company family member.
*The Wil & Michaelene James Endowed Scholarship was established to assist student(s) pursuing a degree in the STEM-H field, must be a native to the Hampton Roads area in Virginia, demonstrate financial need and must have a minimum grade point average of 2.5. (FAFSA)
*The Pamela C. Kirk ’88 and A. Russell Kirk Study Abroad Quasi-Endowment was established to assist full- time undergraduate and graduate students enrolled in Old Dominion University to participate in faculty-led study abroad experiences or an ODU affiliated study abroad program approved by a committee if an ODU faculty-led program is not offered.  Preference will be given to full-time undergraduate or graduate students demonstrating good academic standing, no violations of University’s Honor Code, and demonstrating financial need. (FAFSA)
The Memorial and Recognition Scholarship Fund is an endowed scholarship that will be awarded to a student with a minimum grade point average of 3.00 and is able to demonstrate involvement in community service.
*The Sherwood/Portsmouth Scholarships are funded annually by a trust established by the late Calder Sherwood III, a professor emeritus in the departments of Chemical Sciences and Physics/Geophysical Sciences. Professor Sherwood served on the Old Dominion University faculty for 38 years. The scholarships are awarded to graduates of public high schools in Portsmouth, Virginia who demonstrate financial need. (FAFSA)
*The Charles Redford "Red" Stone Scholarship was established to assist a full-time student in good academic standing.  The student must demonstrate financial need. (FAFSA)
The Town-N-Gown Scholarship has been established by Town-N-Gown, an association dedicated to promoting cooperation between the Hampton Roads community and the University in order to promote better understanding in fulfilling the aims and ideals of each. The scholarship recipient rotates annually from the following: (1) resident of the greater Hampton Roads area, (2) a member of or dependent of active duty military personnel, and (3) a dependent of an Old Dominion University faculty or staff member.
The Hugh L. Vaughan Scholarship has been established by an endowment made by Mr. Hugh L. Vaughan to assist handicapped students. Preference is given to blind students. Recipients must be native-born Virginians.
*The Jane L. and Robert H. Weiner International Affairs Scholarship is made possible through an endowment established by Mr. and Mrs. Weiner to assist a student who will be studying abroad through the International Student Exchange Program (ISEP). Preference will be given to students who will study in a Third World or developing country for the purpose of fostering international understanding and peace and who demonstrate academic achievement and financial need. (FAFSA)
*The Calvert S. Whitehurst Scholarship is funded by an endowment established by Mr. Robert B. Kendall and augmented by the Whitehurst Scholars Scholarship Foundation. The endowment recognizes the contribution of both Mr. Calvert S. Whitehurst and his son, Professor G. William Whitehurst, former member of the U.S. Congress. The scholarship is awarded to a student with financial need who demonstrates academic potential. (FAFSA)
The Linda Hyatt Wilson Graduate Scholarship in China Studies was established by Linda Hyatt Wilson to award one scholarship to a full-time graduate student who has a 3.5 grade point average, demonstrates financial need, and is involved in the study of China’s culture, history, economy, politics, or foreign relations.
The Anita Clair Fellman Endowed Service Learning Scholarship is funded by an endowment established by Dr. Carolyn H. Rhodes to assist one or more full time or part-time graduates, or undergraduate students who participate in a service-learning project through the Department of Women’s Studies.  The recipient will be selected by the chair of the Women’s Studies Department and another Faculty member in the department.
Other Financial Aid Resources
The Parker Lesley Endowed Fund has been established for students who demonstrate need for special circumstances. Special circumstances are defined as emergency travel, supplies, equipment, etc. (ESSAY) (757) 683-6856.
The James Stamos Scholarships in Voice and Piano are made possible by a bequest from Mr. Stamos to assist several students who are majoring in either voice or piano. Information concerning audition requirements is available from the Music Department. Contact Mr. Dennis Zeisler, chair of the department. (AUDITION) (757) 683-4061.
The Student Activities Scholarships in music are awarded to students who participate in one or more Music Department activities including concert choir, band, orchestra, Madrigal Singers and brass choir. Information concerning audition requirements is available from the Music Department. Contact Mr. Dennis Zeisler, chair of the department. (AUDITION, PARTICIPATION) (757) 683-4061.
The Viburnum Acting Endowed Scholarship Fund was established by the Viburnum Foundation to provide monetary awards to acting students. (AUDITION) (757) 683-3608.
The Institute for Learning in Retirement Scholarship is a two-year scholarship established by the Institute for Learning in Retirement for a student of any discipline who demonstrates financial need, has a baccalaureate degree, is a resident of Hampton Roads, and has a 3.00 grade point average. (757) 368-4160.
The Monarch Athletic Bands Endowed Scholarship was established by Old Dominion University Educational Foundation.  The recipient (s) must be a full- time undergraduate or graduate student, successfully completes an audition, and must maintain a minimum GPA of 2.5 for an undergraduate student or minimum GPA of 3.0 for a graduate student.
Veterans and Dependents Benefits
Virginia Military Survivors and Dependents Education Program
The Virginia Military Survivors and Dependents Education Program (VMSDEP) provides education benefits to spouses and children of military members killed, missing in action, taken prisoner, or who have been rated by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs as totally and permanently disabled or at least 90 percent permanently disabled as a result of military service. Military service includes service in the United States Armed Forces, United States Forces Reserves, or the Virginia National Guard.
The Virginia Department of Veterans Services (DVS) is responsible for managing the program and collaborates with the State Council of Higher Education for Virginia (SCHEV) and Virginia’s public colleges and universities to assist spouses and children of qualified military service members and Veterans in attaining their educational goals.  (See the Code of Virginia, Section 23-7.4:1.)
Students who are certified are eligible for educational benefits (a waiver of tuition and mandatory fees). Housing and Meals are not included.
In addition, as funds are available, eligible students may receive a stipend to offset other educational expenses incurred by the student, such as room, board, books, and supplies. Please note that the stipend is not available for the advance purchase of books.
Only students appearing on the verification rosters released by SCHEV to the institutions will be funded for the terms specified as authorized, regardless of certification/verification from any other source.
Stipends Priority Funding System for Fall and Spring
Because there may not be sufficient funding to make full VMSDEP stipends to all eligible students, a priority funding system will be used to determine the order and number of stipends. Students in a higher Priority category must receive their full projected annual stipend, as determined by SCHEV based on student enrollment level, before subsequent categories are considered for funding. Only students appearing on the verification rosters released by SCHEV to the institutions will be funded for the terms specified as authorized, regardless of certification/verification from any other source.
To apply for VMSDEP, students must submit the application on the Virginia Military Survivors web site https://www.dvs.virginia.gov/education-employment/virginia-military-survivors-and-dependents-education-program-2-2-2
Once approved, students are required to report enrollment plans via the VMSDEP portal for each term they wish to use benefits.  Once the request is approved by VMSDEP, the student’s name will be placed on our roster in the VMSDEP portal. Your financial aid account will be noted with your enrollment credits and expected tuition amount.  Please note VMSDEP only covers the tuition costs. Housing and Meals are not included.
Funds will be applied to the student account AFTER the last day to withdraw and receive 50% tuition refund or credit of enrollment confirmation.
Students eligible for the stipend will receive those funds later in the semester once approved by the State Council of Higher Education (SCHEV).
Application Process
You can file the VMSDEP application online through Virginia Department of Veterans Services which also has complete information about the program and its requirements.
Contact:  Phone: (804) 786-0571 Email: vmsdep@dvs.virginia.gov Hours: Monday – Friday, 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
Each semester you intend to use VMSDEP benefits, you must identify the intent of such by following the listed “How to Use the VMSDEP After Approval” instructions on the VMSDEP website.
The student’s name must match the name listed in the ODU system to be processed. For example, if your name listed with VMSDEP is Bobby Smalls, the ODU name listed must also be Bobby Smalls. It cannot be Bob Smalls or Robert Smalls. VMSDEP funds cannot be processed if the student names do not match in both systems.  The student’s domicile must also be determined. Submit the request for instate tuition form or contact the Office of the Registrar for assistance. Students with a pending domicile status cannot be processed.
VMSDEP can only pay the authorized term tuition. Late fees may be assessed if the student is not listed in the portal timely and will be the responsibility of the student.
Approval for late submission of VMSDEP request for awarding of benefits will be at the discretion of the ODU Office of Financial Aid.
EFFECTIVE FALL 2023 ODU WIILL NO LONGER APPLY VMSDEP waivers retroactively. Eligible waivers are applied to current and/or future terms as determined by DVS.  Student’s name must be on the semester roster in the VMSDEP portal by the last day of the current term in order for the waiver to be applied to that term.
Follow the VMSDEP application deadline guidelines to ensure you are approved for the semester you want to start the benefit.
VMSDEP Award Information
As a state veterans’ benefit, the VMSDEP will be included as a financial resource in your financial aid package and may reduce state grants*, university grants or scholarships, federal loans, federal work-study, and private loans. Each financial aid offer type is different, so the benefit may affect each person's offer differently.
*A student cannot receive both VMSDEP and state grants (VGAP and commonwealth).  The state grant award will be cancelled once the student is authorized for VMSDEP.
Tuition benefits (Tier 1 and Tier 2)
Eligible students, as confirmed by DVS, are guaranteed a waiver of all tuition and mandatory fees for eight semesters at a Virginia public college or university and Eastern Virginia Medical School. Please note tuition and mandatory fees are waived.
Housing, dining, books, and supplies are considered educational expenses, however, are not considered mandatory fees and are not waived under this program.
Stipend benefits (Tier 2 only)
Eligible students may receive a stipend to offset educational expenses such as housing, dining, books, and supplies. SCHEV works with DVS and the public colleges and universities in disbursing funds. The amount of the stipend is determined annually by SCHEV and is dependent on the student's enrollment status; the number of participating students; and available funding. Stipends are awarded later in the semester when funds are received from SCHEV.
DO NOT allow technical issues to prevent you from requesting your benefits. Contact VMSDEP directly for help with technical issues. Representatives are available to assist you Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. Their contact information is as follows:
VMSDEP Contact Information Phone - (804) 225-2083 Secure FAX (804) 786-0809 Email: vmsdep@dvs.virginia.gov
Also, sign up for VMSDEP updates so you do not miss any important announcements! Text “VMSDEP” to 42828 or you can click here .
Delays in submitting your VMSDEP request can lead to holds and late penalties.  To avoid delays and possible late penalties, submit your request in a timely manner and by following up with VMSDEP should have questions or concerns.
VMSDEP is handled by the Office of Financial Aid Office. All other Veterans program are handled by the Office of the Registrar.
Information about the administration of education assistance under the Veterans Administration may be obtained from the VA website: www.vba.va.gov . Students wishing to use their VA benefits at Old Dominion University may find further information on the University Registrar’s web page: http://www.odu.edu/military/students/veterans-services.
This institution is approved to offer GI Bill® educational benefits by the Virginia State Approving Agency. GI Bill® is a registered trademark of the U.S Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). More information about education benefits offered by VA is available at the official U.S. government Webs site at http://www.benefits.va.gov/gibill .
Contact the Office of the University Registrar for further assistance: phone: 757 683-4425 FAX: 757 683-5357 email to vaservices@odu.edu.
Termination of Aid
Failure to remain in good academic standing will result in automatic withdrawal of financial aid by the University. Failure to comply with the conditions of a financial award will cause its termination and the return of any unexpended funds as well as repayment, in some cases, of funds already utilized. Undergraduate specific endowed scholarships will be withdrawn immediately for the term in which an undergraduate student's classification advances to an admitted graduate student status.
Search catalog
