Graduate Courses
JAPN 111F Beginning Japanese (6 Credit Hours)
This course introduces basic speaking, listening, reading, and writing skills, including the three forms of written Japanese: Hiragana, Katakana, and Kanji. Students will have the opportunity to interact with Japanese students on campus through the coursework. The course enhances speaking and listening skills and provides awareness of the Japanese style of communication.  Analyzing Japanese sentence structures and grammar leads students to be aware of the different value systems of a high context culture.
JAPN 195 Topics in Japanese (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics designed as electives for non-majors. These courses will appear in the course schedule  and will be more fully described by academic advisors.
JAPN 196 Topics in Japanese (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics designed as electives for non-majors. These courses will appear in the course schedule  and will be more fully described by academic advisors.
JAPN 212 Intermediate Japanese (6 Credit Hours)
The main focus of this course is to build communication skills, developing the basic language skills acquired in JAPN 111F . Students may have an opportunity to exchange emails with a Japanese speaker in addition to direct or online conversation. Through this interaction, skills to negotiate meaning are gained. Use of authentic TV materials introduces pragmatic features that are unique to Japanese. Through systematic explicit instruction of the skills using pragmatic elements, skills for a Japanese style of communication are enhanced.
Prerequisites: JAPN 111F
JAPN 295 Topics in Japanese (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics designed as electives for non-majors.  These courses will appear in the course schedule and will be more fully described by academic advisors.
Prerequisites: 6 hours at the 100 level
JAPN 296 Topics in Japanese (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics designed as electives for non-majors.  These courses will appear in the course schedule and will be more fully described by academic advisors.
Prerequisites: 6 hours at the 100 level
JAPN 301 Intermediate to Advanced Japanese I (3 Credit Hours)
This course aims to develop the oral and written communicative proficiency gained up until the JAPN 212 course. Students learn vocabulary, sentence structures, kanji, communication skills, and various aspects of Japanese culture. Throughout the course, students evaluate and monitor their own progress and utilize feedback from others for further progress.
Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in JAPN 212 or advanced placement
JAPN 302 Intermediate to Advanced Japanese II (3 Credit Hours)
This course aims to develop the oral and written communicative proficiency gained up until the JAPN301 course. Students learn vocabulary, sentence structures, kanji, communication skills, and various aspects of Japanese culture. Throughout the course, students evaluate and monitor their own progress and utilize feedback from others for further progress.
Prerequisites: JAPN 301
JAPN 305 Speaking and Writing Workshop (3 Credit Hours)
In this course, each student will work with a Japanese speaker as a mentor to learn natural communication skills in both speaking and writing. Keeping a journal in the blog style and having the entries revised by their mentor, students will utilize a variety of learned sentence structures and expand their vocabulary.
Prerequisites: JAPN 212 or advanced placement
JAPN 309 Kanji Skills for Reading Japanese (3 Credit Hours)
This course introduces the basic structure of kanji, which is one of the forms of written Japanese, and the history behind its creation as well as cultural aspects of kanji usage in Japanese society. Identifying radicals or parts of kanji, and understanding the system of Kanji compounds, makes it possible to easily guess the meaning of kanji characters.  Advanced reading skills are efficiently developed by guessing the meaning of kanji.   Daily journal writing on authentic novels or newspaper articles builds vocabulary and enhances flexibility with reference materials.
Prerequisites: JAPN 212
JAPN 310 Japan: A Cultural Odyssey (3 Credit Hours)
Exploration of Japanese culture and society from local and global perspectives. Topics may include language, arts, literature, music, food, traditional and contemporary culture, entertainment, media, religion, gender, education and work. The course aims to foster in-depth cultural understanding beyond stereotypes and to develop critical thinking and analytical skills to reflect on one's own experiences and assumptions about cultural similarities and differences. All readings, discussions, and lectures in English. No knowledge of Japanese is necessary. Cross-listed with WCS 310 .
Prerequisites: ENGL 110C and junior standing or permission of the instructor
JAPN 311 Global Conversations (3 Credit Hours)
This is primarily a conversation course to develop linguistic and cultural proficiency in verbal communication. Task-oriented communication strategies in cross-cultural training will be practiced by presenting students with models that demonstrate appropriate linguistic and cultural competencies. Students will practice these skills by role-playing, giving presentations, enriching self-awareness with practiced in-group discussions on various topics (such as, prejudice, racism, values, and customs) that dispel stereotypes and foster more in-depth social-cultural understanding, and with participation in guided cultural encounters. Students will improve their listening and comprehension skills and deepen cultural proficiency by learning how to communicate and collaborate with other people and cultures in a global age.
Prerequisites: JAPN 302 with a grade of C or above or a satisfactory score on the placement test
JAPN 312W Writing Around the World (3 Credit Hours)
This is a writing intensive course designed with writing assignments that examine various cultural contexts that enable students to understand cultural content, style, audience and organization. The main objective of the course is increased awareness of and sensitivity to appropriate word choice and syntax in the language. Students will engage in writing for different cultural audiences and in varied contexts such as literary, artistic and media expressions around the world. Special emphasis is placed on the methodology of close reading as students hone the analytics skills and vocabulary necessary to interpret idioms, regionalism, cultural expressions and overall intercultural skills observed in various genres and cultures. Students will analyze compelling global issues and the diverse cultural perspectives that inform them.
Prerequisites: a grade of C or better in ENGL 211C or ENGL 231C and JAPN 302 with a grade of C or above or a satisfactory score on the placement test
JAPN 323 World Cultures and Contexts (3 Credit Hours)
This course explores Japanese culture and society from traditional to current perspectives. Through readings, discussions, interviews, and reflections, the course aims to foster deeper understanding of current Japanese culture where lifestyles, customs, and value systems are rapidly changing. Students have an opportunity to develop their critical thinking, especially by analyzing what they learn from their interviews with Japanese people and comparing this to information they gained from their readings. Major topics this semester include group consciousness and social relationships, food and society, history of Japanese language.
Prerequisites: JAPN 302 with a grade of C or better or Advanced Placement
JAPN 335 Japanese Society and Language (3 Credit Hours)
This course explores the social and cultural aspects of the Japanese language. It examines actual language use in various social settings and contexts by different people, including the use of regional dialects, gendered language, speech levels, and fictional role languages.
Prerequisites: JAPN 212 or permission of the instructor
JAPN 395 Topics in Japanese (1-3 Credit Hours)
This course provides a study of selected topics in Japanese. Topics vary with the semester and the instructor. Expectations for materials covered and produced for the class vary with the level (higher-level classes will have higher expectations). Contact the Japanese Program Coordinator for details about specific topics covered in a given semester.
Prerequisites: JAPN 212 or the equivalent
JAPN 396 Topics in Japanese (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics in Japanese.  These courses will appear in the course schedule and will be more fully described by academic advisors.
Prerequisites: JAPN 212 or the equivalent
JAPN 422/522 Analyzing Japanese Conversation (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines Japanese conversation from a comparative perspective using the framework of Conversation Analysis. It explores the basic mechanisms of social interaction in English and Japanese spoken discourse with a particular focus on everyday talk.
Prerequisites: JAPN 312 or permission of the instructor
JAPN 445 Japanese Language Acquisition and Teaching (3 Credit Hours)
This course introduces students to fundamental principles of second language acquisition (SLA) and teaches them practical skills to develop course materials and class activities informed by SLA principles. The course covers world language learning and teaching in general but focuses on Japanese as a second or world language when working on course material and activity development.
Prerequisites: JAPN 312 or permission of the instructor
JAPN 495/595 Topics in Japanese (1-3 Credit Hours)
This course provides a study of selected topics in Japanese. Topics vary with the semester and the instructor. Expectations for materials covered and produced for the class vary with the level (higher-level classes will have higher expectations). Contact the Japanese Program Coordinator for details about specific topics covered in a given semester.
Prerequisites: JAPN 311 and JAPN 312 or permission of the instructor
JAPN 496/596 Topics in Japanese (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics in Japanese.  These courses will appear in the course schedule and will be more fully described by academic advisors.
Prerequisites: JAPN 311 and JAPN 312 or permission of the instructor
JAPN 498 Tutorial Work in Japanese (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor. Conferences and papers as appropriate.
Prerequisites: JAPN 311 and JAPN 312 or permission of the instructor
JAPN 522 Analyzing Japanese Conversation (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines Japanese conversation from a comparative perspective using the framework of Conversation Analysis. It explores the basic mechanisms of social interaction in English and Japanese spoken discourse with a particular focus on everyday talk.
Prerequisites: JAPN 312 or permission of the instructor
JAPN 595 Topics in Japanese (1-6 Credit Hours)
This course provides a study of selected topics in Japanese. Topics vary with the semester and the instructor. Expectations for materials covered and produced for the class vary with the level (higher-level classes will have higher expectations). Contact the Japanese Program Coordinator for details about specific topics covered in a given semester.
Prerequisites: third-year Japanese or permission of the instructor
JAPN 596 Topics in Japanese (1-6 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics in Japanese.  These courses will appear in the course schedule and will be more fully described by academic advisors.
Prerequisites: third-year Japanese or permission of the instructor
JAPN 697 Tutorial Work in Japanese (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor. Conferences and papers as appropriate.
Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor
Search catalog
