Provide progressive education, research, and innovation to promote the blue economy.
Vision
Be a globally recognized maritime center of excellence and a destination for maritime enterprise.
Strategic Goals
Education: Create and expand interdisciplinary academic programs and increase their enrollment to support the blue ecosystem. Promote diversity, inspire leadership, and prepare students for the future to be successful in not just jobs, but in careers.
Research & Innovation: Accelerate collaborative, interdisciplinary research. Be the partner of choice for leading institutions to support the national maritime strategy, solve key industry problems, contribute to workforce development, and protect the natural environment. Serve as a beacon for innovation and thought leadership.
Engagement: Grow strategic partnerships with industry, government, academia, and community, and increase representation at prominent local, national, and international maritime related organizations, conferences, and events.
Communication: Increase marketing, communication, and transparency of internal and external maritime related opportunities. Brand ODU as a maritime university while maintaining the university’s overarching brand.
I embarked on a career as a professional naval officer as a member of the Hampton Roads Naval Reserve Officer Training Corps (NROTC) at Old Dominion University (ODU), one of the largest ROTC units in the United States and co-located with the largest naval base in the world.
Capt. Janet Days Commanding Officer, NS Norfolk
ODU’s political science program provided a strong foundation for my ultimate career and service in maritime law.
Deborah Waters Esquire, Waters Law Firm, P.C.
I pursued ODU and the coursework available to solve an industry engineering problem common in the design of marine and aerospace vehicles.
William Boze Engineering Manager, Newport News Shipbuilding, a Division of Huntington Ingalls Industries
Read More
As a retired U. S. Navy Veteran and current port engineer supporting the fleet, attending ODU was invaluable to allowing me to provide engineering expertise in maintaining the readiness of the nation’s fleet from the newest to the oldest warships.
James Deputy Retired U. S. Navy Veteran
Read More
I am an International Trade Execution Merchandiser and with what I learned from ODU’s Maritime and Supply Chain program I am able to help coordinate and execute plans involving all the different parties involved in Import/Export of Bulk Vessels ranging from Balsa sized ships to Supramax’s.
Andrew Smith Graduate Student
