The Designed World Minor
BA or BS to MBA (Master of Business Administration) Linked Program
The linked BA/MBA or BS/MBA program is an early entry to the MBA program of study.  The early-entry program is designed for well qualified non-business undergraduate ODU students to start their MBA program prior to completing their undergraduate degree.  Well qualified non-business undergraduate students may take MBA-level courses as early as three semesters prior to graduation and count up to 12 graduate credits toward their undergraduate degree.  Students participating in the early-entry program must earn a minimum of 150 credit hours (120 discrete credit hours for the undergraduate degree and 30 discrete credit hours for the graduate degree).  Early-entry program students should carefully consider their undergraduate degree program requirements when planning their course of study.  Students in the early-entry program work in close consultation with the MBA Program Office and should refer to information in the Strome College of Business section in the graduate catalog to develop an individualized plan of study based on the required coursework.
BA or BS to MPA (Master of Public Administration) Linked Program
The linked BA/MPA or BS/MPA program provides qualified Old Dominion University undergraduate students with the opportunity to earn a master's degree in public administration while taking credits in the MPA program as an undergraduate student.  The program is designed for highly motivated students with the desire to immediately continue their education after the bachelor's degree.  The program is especially relevant to individuals seeking to work (or currently working) in the public or non-profit sectors, but is suitable for students from any undergraduate major.  Graduate courses may be taken during the fall and spring semester of the student's senior undergraduate year.  Up to 12 graduate credits can count toward both the undergraduate and graduate degree and can meet upper-level General Education requirements. After receiving the undergraduate degree, a student will continue with the MPA program, taking MPA courses until completing the required 39 credit hours. Students in the linked program must earn a minimum of 150 credit hours (120 discrete credit hours for the undergraduate degree and 30 discrete credit hours for the graduate degree).
Requirements for admission to the graduate program can be found in the School of Public Service section of the Graduate Catalog .  For additional information, please contact the School of Public Service in the Strome College of Business.
Linked Bachelor's in Art, Visual Studies and Fine Arts and MA in Humanities
The linked bachelor's programs in art history, visual studies and fine arts and the MA in humanities make it possible for exceptional students to count up to 12 hours of graduate courses toward both an undergraduate and graduate degree.  Students must earn a minimum of 150 credit hours (120 discrete credit hours for the undergraduate degree and 30 discrete credit hours for the graduate degree).  Please refer to the Humanities section of this Catalog for additional information on the linked programs.
Courses
Art Education (ARTE)
ARTE 301 Foundations of Art Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course introduces historical, philosophical, and sociological foundations and contemporary issues of American public education, including the history and philosophies of art in education, best practice methods, and learning theories in PreK-12 schools, cultural institutions, and museum settings. Virginia Standards of Learning, National Core Arts Standards for Art, and an introduction to teaching for the understanding of visual art, visual inquiry, lesson planning, and assessment will be addressed. All students will complete a 30-hour observation experience in an appropriate PreK-12 setting specific to art education. Students are required to independently register for and take the VCLA.
Prerequisites: ENGL 110C and ENGL 211C or ENGL 231C with a grade of C or better; Art education majors only and sophomore standing; must successfully pass the background check process as outlined on the College of Education and Professional Studies' website
ARTE 305 Elementary Art Education Methods and Classroom Management (3 Credit Hours)
This course will attend to issues of children’s art making and how the visual arts can empower learning in a variety of settings. Through site visitations students will broaden their understanding of age-appropriate pedagogical practices while also exploring various artmaking materials and classroom management strategies. Through research and thought provoking hands-on activities students will develop critical thinking skills and increase their awareness of content knowledge. Students will begin work on developing their portfolios. Thirty hour practicum in an elementary setting required. (Offered spring semester; to be taken sophomore year.)
Prerequisites: ARTE 301 with a grade of C or better; VCLA score on file and Criminal Background Check completed; open to art education majors only
ARTE 306 Secondary Art Education Methods and Classroom Management (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to address theoretical and practical aspects of curriculum development and classroom management with an emphasis on honoring diversity and advocating for equity in secondary art education learning environments.  Pedagogy will focus on implementing studio based lessons, including current approaches to digital technology. Through research and site visits students will broaden their understanding of age-appropriate pedagogical practices. Students will critically reflect on their development as an educator while understanding their role as an advocate for the field of art education. Work on portfolios is continued. Thirty hour practicum in a secondary setting required. (Offered fall semester; to be taken junior year.)
Prerequisites: ARTE 301 and ARTE 305 , both with a grade of C or better; a passing score on the VCLA; PRAXIS Art Content (5134) score must be on file
ARTE 411 Curriculum and Instruction in Art Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to prepare students for their upcoming capstone and student teaching internship from the inception of an idea to writing units of instruction for K-12 classrooms and museum and cultural institution settings. Students will use foundational knowledge to design comprehensive curriculum including relevant assessments. Students will review current topics and practice through reading, research and writing in the field of art education. Students will focus on dispositions of visual art educators as defined by NEAE national standards as well as the development of culturally relevant pedagogy. (Offered spring semester; to be taken junior year.)
Prerequisites: Grades of C or better in ARTE 301 , ARTE 305 , and ARTE 306 ; acceptance in the teacher preparation program; VCLA must be passed before enrollment; Praxis Art Content (5134) score must be on file; must complete the Child Abuse and Neglect, Cultural Competency, Dyslexia, First Aid/CPR/AED, and Restraint and Seclusion certifications
ARTE 480 Capstone in Art Education (3 Credit Hours)
Designed to provide advanced art education students with substantial practical experience in planning, developing, administering, and evaluating a program of visual arts education for young learners in a local museum setting for Saturday Morning Art Classes (SMAC). Students will reflect critically on their personal practice through arts-based methods and writing activities, as well as curate a final art exhibition for participants and their families. Student portfolios will include all needed components, with the exception of documentation of their student teaching or museum and cultural institutions internship. This course includes the final BFA show. (Offered fall semester; to be taken in the senior year.)
Prerequisites: Grades of C or better in ARTE 301 , ARTE 305 , ARTE 306 , and ARTE 411 ; SPED 313 ; passing score on VCLA, acceptance into the teacher preparation program, and passing score on the Praxis 2 Art content knowledge exam (Test 5134)
ARTE 485 Museum and Cultural Institutions Internship (6 Credit Hours)
Internship with educational programming and the facilitation of learning for young learners in a museum or cultural institution.  Current partners include the Virginia Museum of Contemporary Art, the Chrysler Museum of Art, and the Hermitage Museum School of Visual Arts. (Offered spring semester; to be taken in the senior year.)
Art History (ARTH)
ARTH 121A Introduction to the Visual Arts (3 Credit Hours)
An introduction to the various media, techniques, styles, content, and contexts in the visual arts as they are manifested in the world's cultures.
ARTH 127A Honors: Introduction to the Visual Arts (3 Credit Hours)
An introduction to the various media, techniques, styles, content, and contexts in the visual arts as they are manifested in the world's cultures. Open only to students in the Honors College.
ARTH 150 Global Survey of Art History (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides an opportunity to discover, appreciate, and acquire broad knowledge of art history through the ages, from the Prehistoric era to contemporary times within a global perspective. Students will learn to examine and critically analyze major forms of artistic expression from diverse cultures and periods of art in order to understand their individual and collective contributions to the arts.
ARTH 195 Topics (1-3 Credit Hours)
Special topics in art history.
ARTH 203 Ancient Art (3 Credit Hours)
This course covers the art and architecture of the ancient world from its Paleolithic origins to the end of antiquity and the birth of Christian art. Ranging from drawings in caves to mosaics in churches, the material addressed in the course is situated in its social, political, and historical context. The objective of this course is to provide a visual and cultural literacy of ancient art and to familiarize students with the methods, theories, and traditions upon which ancient art history is grounded.
Prerequisites: ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C or permission of instructor
ARTH 204 Debunking Myths in Art (3 Credit Hours)
This course is an effort to confront conspiratorial thinking where art is concerned. The interpretation of human visual culture – particularly from ancient periods – is a particularly subjective endeavor, but in recent years social media have accelerated the proliferation of baseless theories about art, architecture, and material culture. From alien-builder theories to simple misconceptions about the polychromatic nature of Classical art, these pseudoarchaeologies can be found throughout the world, but they tend to harangue and ultimately undermine non-European peoples and cultures and their cultural heritage.
Prerequisites: ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C or permission of instructor
ARTH 210 Early Modern Art in Europe (3 Credit Hours)
“Early Modern” is a relatively new term applied to a broad period of artistic production in Europe that encompasses distinct, yet overlapping, style periods, which include the “Renaissance,” “Baroque,”  “Rococo,” and “Neoclassicism.” This course will examine painting, sculpture, architecture, and graphic arts in Europe from 1400—1800 within the context of artistic creativity in relationship with intellectual, religious, economic, political, scientific, and cultural changes and developments in the Western world.
Prerequisites: ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C or permission of instructor
ARTH 230 Survey of Modern and Contemporary Art (3 Credit Hours)
A survey of modern and contemporary art with respect to its theoretical grounding and diverse practices. Students will encounter globally prominent artists of the last century as well as art of the immediate present on display in our area. Students will also receive instruction and experience in research and writing within the discipline of art history.
Prerequisites: ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C or permission of instructor
ARTH 295 Topics (3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected art history topics to be specified in the class schedule each semester. May be repeated for credit as topics vary.
Prerequisites: ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C or permission of instructor
ARTH 305 Egyptian Art (3 Credit Hours)
This course explores the art and architecture of ancient Egypt from the migrations of anatomically modern humans out of Africa to the persistence of Egyptian identity under Roman domination. Egypt looms large in the popular consciousness of modern society, with extraterrestrial or magical connotations. This course encourages critical thinking skills by stressing the importance of evidence and context in the interpretation of Egyptian monuments and iconography. Fulfills non-western requirement for majors.
Prerequisites: ARTH 121A or ARTH 150 or ARTH 203 or ARTH 204 or ARTH 210 or ARTH 230 or permission of the instructor
ARTH 310 Women in the Visual Arts (3 Credit Hours)
The contributions of women in the various fields in the visual arts--painting, graphics, sculpture, architecture, and the crafts.
Prerequisites: ARTH 121A or ARTH 150 or ARTH 203 or ARTH 204 or ARTH 210 or ARTH 230 or permission of the instructor
ARTH 314 15th and 16th Century Art in Northern Europe (3 Credit Hours)
The painting, sculpture, and graphics of the Netherlands, France and Germany in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries with discussion of artists such as Jan van Eyck, Hieronymus Bosch, Pieter Bruegel the Elder, and Albrecht Durer.
Prerequisites: ARTH 121A or ARTH 150 or ARTH 203 or ARTH 204 or ARTH 210 or ARTH 230 or permission of the instructor
ARTH 315 Early Renaissance Art in Italy (3 Credit Hours)
Painting, sculpture, and architecture in 14th- and 15th-century Italy from Giotto to Botticelli, among others.
Prerequisites: ARTH 121A or ARTH 150 or ARTH 203 or ARTH 204 or ARTH 210 or ARTH 230 or permission of the instructor
ARTH 316 High Renaissance Art in Italy (3 Credit Hours)
This course is a survey of High Renaissance Art in Italy (roughly 1473 to 1520), focusing on the recognized major artists or 'masters' of the High Renaissance, Leonardo da Vinci, Michelangelo, Raphael, and Titian, as well as their lesser known contemporaries.
Prerequisites: ARTH 121A or ARTH 150 or ARTH 203 or ARTH 204 or ARTH 210 or ARTH 230 or permission of the instructor
ARTH 317 Mannerism and Late Renaissance Art in Italy (3 Credit Hours)
The works of Leonardo, Michelangelo, and Raphael brought the Renaissance to its height, but by 1520, two of these masters were dead. It is in this aftermath - post-1520 - that a new generation of artists arose revolutionizing the art world. This course is a survey of mid-late sixteenth-century art in Italy.
Prerequisites: ARTH 121A or ARTH 150 or ARTH 203 or ARTH 204 or ARTH 210 or ARTH 230 or permission of the instructor
ARTH 318 Baroque Art in Italy and Spain (3 Credit Hours)
This course is a survey of Baroque Art in Italy and Spain. Material includes painting, sculpture, and architecture of the seventeenth and early eighteenth centuries, with discussion of artists such as Caravaggio, Annibale Carracci, Gian Lorenzo Bernini, Francesco Borromini, Diego Velazquez, Jusepe de Ribera, and Francisco de Zurbaran, among others.
Prerequisites: ARTH 121A or ARTH 150 or ARTH 203 or ARTH 204 or ARTH 210 or ARTH 230 or permission of the instructor
ARTH 319 Baroque Art in Northern Europe (3 Credit Hours)
This course is a survey of Baroque Art in Northern Europe. Materials include painting, sculpture, and architecture of the seventeenth and early eighteenth centuries, with discussion of artists such as Peter Paul Rubens, Rembrandt, Vermeer, and Poussin, among others.
Prerequisites: ARTH 121A or ARTH 150 or ARTH 203 or ARTH 204 or ARTH 210 or ARTH 230 or permission of the instructor
ARTH 320W History of Graphic Design (3 Credit Hours)
A critical study of the formal, cultural, and intellectual developments of the graphic design discipline, including related activity in fine art, illustration, and industrial design. This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: Grade of C or better in ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C ; and ARTH 121A or ARTH 150 or ARTH 203 or ARTH 204 or ARTH 210 or ARTH 230 or permission of instructor
ARTH 321 History of Decorative Arts (3 Credit Hours)
Examines the major historical developments in the decorative and applied arts, landscape design, and material culture from the Renaissance to the Modern period.
Prerequisites: ARTH 121A or ARTH 150 or ARTH 203 or ARTH 204 or ARTH 210 or ARTH 230 or permission of the instructor
ARTH 322 American Art and Architecture, 1600 to the Present (3 Credit Hours)
Through the study of form, content, and context of selected works of painting, architecture and sculpture made in colonial North America and the US from the 17th to the 20th century, this course will probe changing American social and cultural values embodied in art. Students will study individual artists as well as themes, with particular attention to the production and reception of art in a developing nation, the transformation of European architectural styles into a new environment, the construction of race in ante- and post-bellum America, and the identification of an abstract style of art with the political ascendancy of the US after World War II.
Prerequisites: ARTH 121A or ARTH 150 or ARTH 203 or ARTH 204 or ARTH 210 or ARTH 230 or permission of the instructor
ARTH 323 Nineteenth-Century European Art (3 Credit Hours)
Survey of the mainstreams of European art during the late eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, including discussion of architecture, sculpture, painting, and the graphic arts.
Prerequisites: ARTH 121A or ARTH 150 or ARTH 203 or ARTH 204 or ARTH 210 or ARTH 230 or permission of the instructor
ARTH 327 History of Photography (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of the development of photography as a scientific curiosity, a tool for artists, and as a fine art in itself from the early nineteenth century to the present day.
Prerequisites: ARTH 121A or ARTH 150 or ARTH 203 or ARTH 204 or ARTH 210 or ARTH 230 or permission of the instructor
ARTH 328 Art of Gardens (3 Credit Hours)
An introductory course to the history of gardens. Gardening is explored as an artistic expression and connections are made to other visual arts such as painting, sculpture and architecture, as well as to as theater and public representation. The course combines a heavy site-visiting component with readings and individual research directed towards the final course paper and presentations.
Prerequisites: ARTH 121A or ARTH 150 or ARTH 203 or ARTH 204 or ARTH 210 or ARTH 230 or permission of instructor
ARTH 339 Surrealism and other Utopias (3 Credit Hours)
A study of the international movements in visual arts and design in the interwar years from Dada to the New World's Fair.
Prerequisites: ARTH 121A or ARTH 150 or ARTH 203 or ARTH 204 or ARTH 210 or ARTH 230 or permission of the instructor
ARTH 340 Abstract Expressionism and its Discontents (3 Credit Hours)
An intensive study of the two decades when modernist styles and theories in art, design, and architecture were codified and challenged internationally.
Prerequisites: ARTH 121A or ARTH 150 or ARTH 203 or ARTH 204 or ARTH 210 or ARTH 230 or permission of the instructor
ARTH 350W Art Criticism (3 Credit Hours)
A study of the analysis, theoretical approaches, methodologies, and effects of the practice of art criticism. This is a writing-intensive course.
Prerequisites: ARTH 121A or ARTH 150 or ARTH 203 or ARTH 204 or ARTH 210 or ARTH 230 or permission of the instructor; grade of C or better in ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C
ARTH 351W Research Methods in Art History (3 Credit Hours)
An investigation of past and present approaches to scholarship in art history.  Students participate in a series of writing assignments designed to strengthen their research and writing skills, culminating with the presentation of original research in oral and written form. This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: Grade of C or better in ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C ; and ARTH 121A or ARTH 150 or ARTH 203 or ARTH 204 or ARTH 210 or ARTH 230 or permission of the instructor
ARTH 360 Asian Art (3 Credit Hours)
An introduction to the architecture, sculpture, calligraphy, pottery, ink painting, miniature painting, and gardens of India, China, and Japan.  Emphasis will be placed on the connections among the cultures: Buddhism and pilgrimage, the importance of the scholar painters, the role of trade routes and the emergence of native writing. Cross-listed with ASIA 360 .
Prerequisites: ARTH 121A or ARTH 150 or ARTH 203 or ARTH 204 or ARTH 210 or ARTH 230 or permission of the instructor
ARTH 365 Problems in Postmodernism (3 Credit Hours)
Lectures and critical discussion of the development and configurations of the various styles emergent since 1960, both in America and Europe.
Prerequisites: ARTH 121A or ARTH 150 or ARTH 203 or ARTH 204 or ARTH 210 or ARTH 230 or permission of the instructor
ARTH 368 Internship (1-3 Credit Hours)
An unpaid, structured work experience in a museum, gallery, archive, or related environment for credit. Criteria for evaluation will be determined by work supervisor and cooperating faculty advisor. May be repeated for credit.  Available for pass/fail grading only.
Prerequisites: Approval of the program director and Monarch Internship and Co-Op Office
ARTH 369 Practicum (1-3 Credit Hours)
A specialized field activity outside of the classroom. Qualifies as a CAP experience. Available for pass/fail grading only.
Prerequisites: Approval of the program director
ARTH 377 Extracurricular Studies (1-6 Credit Hours)
An extracurricular activity approved for credit based on objectives, criteria, and evaluative procedures as formally determined by the department and the student prior to the semester in which the activity is to take place.  Such credit is subject to review by the provost.
Prerequisites: Approval of the program director
ARTH 378 Extracurricular Studies (1-6 Credit Hours)
An extracurricular activity approved for credit based on objectives, criteria, and evaluative procedures as formally determined by the department and the student prior to the semester in which the activity is to take place.  Such credit is subject to review by the provost.
Prerequisites: Approval of the program director
ARTH 395 Topics in Art History (3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics in art history to be specified in the class schedule each semester. May be repeated for credit as topics vary.
Prerequisites: ARTH 121A or ARTH 150 or ARTH 203 or ARTH 204 or ARTH 210 or ARTH 230 or permission of the instructor
ARTH 396 Topics in Art History (3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics in art history to be specified in the class schedule each semester.  May be repeated for credit as topics vary.
Prerequisites: ARTH 121A or ARTH 150 or ARTH 203 or ARTH 204 or ARTH 210 or ARTH 230 or permission of the instructor
ARTH 408/508 Hieronymus Bosch (3 Credit Hours)
Before Dalí…before Magritte…before De Chirico, there was Hieronymus Bosch. Well before the advent of the Surrealism movement in the twentieth century, the late fifteenth-century/early sixteenth-century Dutch painter Hieronymus Bosch rocked the art world with his fantastical, disturbing, and enigmatic paintings.  This course will critically examine Bosch and his work. Students will work like detectives, first by dismantling long-standing misinterpretations about Bosch’s work, then by analyzing and deciphering his iconography through the lens of the period in which he lived, including art theory, politics, religion, devotion, and alchemy, among other topics.
Prerequisites: ARTH 121A or ARTH 150 or ARTH 203 or ARTH 204 or ARTH 210 or ARTH 230 or permission of instructor
ARTH 410/510 Michelangelo (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the life, sculptures, paintings, and architecture of one of the greatest Italian Renaissance artists, Michelangelo Buonarroti.
Prerequisites: ARTH 121A or ARTH 150 or ARTH 203 or ARTH 204 or ARTH 210 or ARTH 230 or permission of the instructor
ARTH 411/511 Caravaggio (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the life and revolutionary paintings of the Italian Baroque painter Caravaggio.
Prerequisites: ARTH 121A or ARTH 150 or ARTH 203 or ARTH 204 or ARTH 210 or ARTH 230 or permission of the instructor
ARTH 416/516 Myths of Venice (3 Credit Hours)
Venice is set apart from other cities in Italy and from Europe not only by its geography—a city seemingly floating on water, with canals instead of streets—but also by its unique history, traditions, and cultural identity. The consideration and examination of its mythical origins in the fifth century, through its history as a territory of the Byzantine Empire, and the establishment of their Republic in 1297, this course will examine how Venice fashioned its own identity through its art and architecture during the Italian Renaissance.
Prerequisites: ARTH 121A or ARTH 150 or ARTH 203 or ARTH 204 or ARTH 210 or ARTH 230 or permission of instructor
ARTH 417/517 Renaissance and Baroque Women (3 Credit Hours)
This course will examine the ways in which prevailing ideas about women shaped visual imagery, and in turn, how these images influenced, perpetuated, and even changed perceptions about women from the fifteenth through seventeenth centuries in Italy (Renaissance and Baroque periods). Students will explore how text and visual imagery informed one another, and closely examine works of art by women artists, commissioned by women patrons, and works featuring women through thematic topics. Although patriarchy dominated the Renaissance and Baroque periods, the course will recover the histories of women artists, patrons, and writers, and examine how women navigated the gender oppression of their periods to reclaim their power and value.
Prerequisites: ARTH 121A or ARTH 150 or ARTH 203 or ARTH 204 or ARTH 210 or ARTH 230 or permission of instructor
ARTH 420/520 Pompeii (3 Credit Hours)
This seminar is an exploration of the visual and material culture of Pompeii, incorporating a broad spectrum of evidence, ranging from the city’s temples to the wall paintings in the city’s brothels. The goal of the class is to instill a working knowledge of the most recent scholarship on the ancient city and to contextualize Pompeii's art and architecture in the historical narrative of the city and the broader body of scholarship on Roman cultural history.
Prerequisites: ARTH 121A or ARTH 150 or ARTH 203 or ARTH 204 or ARTH 210 or ARTH 230 or permission of the instructor
ARTH 434/534 Romantic Architecture (3 Credit Hours)
A survey of the aesthetic, technological, and social forces that transformed international architecture in the 18th and 19th centuries.
Prerequisites: ARTH 121A or ARTH 150 or ARTH 203 or ARTH 204 or ARTH 210 or ARTH 230 or permission of the instructor
ARTH 435W/535 Modern Architecture (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of the architecture, planning, and related design of the twentieth and twenty-first centuries around the globe.  Special emphasis is placed on the formation of the international style between the world wars and its disintegration in the recent past. This is a writing intensive course; the course also satisfies the general education impact of technology requirement.
Prerequisites: Grade of C or better in ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C ; and ARTH 121A or ARTH 150 or ARTH 203 or ARTH 204 or ARTH 210 or ARTH 230 or permission of the instructor
ARTH 441/541 Realism in Modern and Contemporary Art (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the changing motivations, contexts, and characteristics of realist art since the inception of modernism. While definitions of radical and conservative have wavered and flipped, recognizable imagery seems always to function as a critical intervention within aesthetic racial, or gender-based hegemonies. As students examine numerous artists’ strategies, they will see that reality isn’t always so easy to pin down.
Prerequisites: ARTH 121A or ARTH 150 or ARTH 203 or ARTH 204 or ARTH 210 or ARTH 230 or permission of instructor
ARTH 442/542 Painting Now (3 Credit Hours)
Anxiety about painting’s purpose and relevance are woven into modern art’s linear concept of history. The goal of this class is to help students understand, both intellectually and emotionally, the ambitions that motivate painting, as well as to give them an opportunity to sample the diverse practices and critical approaches that make up the painterly landscape, and finally to examine how or if it fits within the broader scope of contemporary art.
Prerequisites: ARTH 121A or ARTH 150 or ARTH 203 or ARTH 204 or ARTH 210 or ARTH 230 or permission of instructor
ARTH 450/550 Public Art (3 Credit Hours)
This course is a collaborative exploration of the problems and opportunities of national and international public art that combines the practical with the theoretical, and the studio with the art-historical.
Prerequisites: ARTH 121A or ARTH 150 or ARTH 203 or ARTH 204 or ARTH 210 or ARTH 230 or permission of the instructor
ARTH 480 Senior Thesis (3 Credit Hours)
The research and writing of a thesis on an advanced topic in art history to be determined by the student in concert with a faculty advisor. The thesis option is intended for art history majors preparing for graduate study in the field, and serves as the required culminating work for their degree.
Prerequisites: Senior standing; 12 hours of art history electives at the 300 and 400 levels; requires program director approval
ARTH 481 Capstone (3 Credit Hours)
The research and writing of a capstone on an advanced topic in art history to be determined by the student in concert with a faculty advisor. The capstone serves as the required culminating work for students who are not pursuing graduate studies in the field.
Prerequisites: Approval of the program director
ARTH 495/595 Topics in Art History (3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics in art history to be specified in the class schedule each semester. May be repeated for credit as topics vary.
Prerequisites: ARTH 121A or ARTH 150 or ARTH 203 or ARTH 204 or ARTH 210 or ARTH 230 or permission of the instructor
ARTH 496/596 Topics in Art History (3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics in art history to be specified in the class schedule each semester. May be repeated for credit as topics vary.
Prerequisites: ARTH 121A or ARTH 150 or ARTH 203 or ARTH 204 or ARTH 210 or ARTH 230 or permission of the instructor
ARTH 497/597 Tutorial Work in Art History (3 Credit Hours)
Independent research on a topic to be selected under the guidance of a faculty advisor. Course is restricted to art history majors.
Prerequisites: Approval of program director
ARTH 498/598 Tutorial Work in Art History (3 Credit Hours)
Independent research on a topic to be selected under the guidance of a faculty advisor. Course is restricted to art history majors.
Prerequisites: Approval of program director
Art, Studio (ARTS)
ARTS 122A Visual Communication (3 Credit Hours)
An introduction to essential themes and means of visual communication in the fine arts with an emphasis on studio experience in techniques from the different disciplines in studio art.
ARTS 126A Honors: Art as Experience (3 Credit Hours)
Open only to students in the Honors College.  A special honors section of ARTS 122A .
ARTS 202 Two-Dimensional Design and Color Theory (3 Credit Hours)
An introduction to pictorial design via an intensive study of the elements and  principles of art and design and Gestalt Theory. These fundamental ideas are reinforced as color theory principles are introduced, such as: additive and subtractive color systems, color interaction, and harmonies as well as the phenomenon of simultaneous contrast.
ARTS 203 Three-Dimensional Design (3 Credit Hours)
A basic course examining the relation of form and structure in a three-dimensional environment.
ARTS 204 Foundational Concepts in Studio Art (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides students an overview of the options, methods, and strategies by which modern and contemporary artists operate. One of the primary learning outcomes is for students to be conversant with the discourse and ideas that they have inherited as artists, designers, and scholars in the 21st century in order to enrich their own creative practices.
ARTS 211 Introduction to Digital Photography (3 Credit Hours)
Introduction to conceptual, technical and historical aspects of photography as a creative medium using digital technology.  Technical areas covered include camera use, digital image processing, and digital printing.  Class time is divided between demonstrations of applicable skills, in class work time, lectures and critiques.
Prerequisites: ARTS 279 or permission of the instructor
ARTS 221 Introduction  to Glass: Survey (3 Credit Hours)
This course is structured to provide instruction to glass forming, balanced with the history, criticism, and aesthetics of glass art.  It is a basic course in the techniques of glassblowing, flameworking, kiln forming and coldworking, taught through a series of hands-on projects. Lectures, demonstrations, and critiques encourage students to consider both the technical and conceptual manifestations of this material. In addition, the Chrysler Museum’s extensive contemporary and historical glass collection and interaction with visiting and resident glass artists will be utilized.  The course allows students of all skill levels to learn new techniques to advance Io a higher level of art production.
Prerequisites: ARTS 203
ARTS 231 Drawing I: Fundamentals of Drawing (3 Credit Hours)
An intensive studio course that fosters observational and visualization skills through a comprehensive exploration of composition, linear perspective, and sighting and measuring techniques. These principles are executed by utilizing line and value with a variety of media including graphite, charcoal, and ink. Investigations of the discipline's historic and contemporary dimensions support the course objectives.
ARTS 241 Painting I (3 Credit Hours)
An observational painting course that serves as an introduction to the fundamental concepts and competencies of oil painting. Primary emphasis is on composition, accuracy of color mixing, description of form and space as well as paint application techniques.
ARTS 254 Printmaking: The Relief Print (3 Credit Hours)
An introduction to basic relief printing techniques including woodcut, linocut, letterpress, and collograph.
Pre- or corequisite: ARTS 202 and ARTS 231 ; one or both may be taken before; one may be taken as a corequisite
ARTS 257 Print I: Intaglio and Relief (3 Credit Hours)
A basic introduction to the aesthetic and conceptual possibilities of print media, focusing primarily on Intaglio and Relief printing techniques. Studio projects and demonstrations will be supplemented with lectures and readings exploring the significance of print to contemporary artists.
Prerequisites: ARTS 202 and ARTS 231
ARTS 258 Print I: Screenprint and Lithography (3 Credit Hours)
A basic introduction to the aesthetic and conceptual possibilities of print media, focusing primarily on Screenprinting and Lithography. Studio projects and demonstrations will be supplemented with lectures and readings exploring the significance of print to contemporary artists.
Prerequisites: ARTS 202 and ARTS 231
ARTS 259 Print I: Letterpress and Book Arts (3 Credit Hours)
A basic introduction to the aesthetic and conceptual possibilities of print media, focusing primarily on Letterpress and Book Arts. Studio projects and demonstrations will be supplemented with lectures and readings exploring the significance of print to contemporary artists.
Prerequisites: ARTS 202 and ARTS 231
ARTS 261 Introduction to Sculpture (3 Credit Hours)
Conceptual thinking in three dimensions; the development of visual capacity and spatial sense through direct experience in materials.
Prerequisites: ARTS 202 and ARTS 203
ARTS 263 Introduction to Ceramics (3 Credit Hours)
A studio core course designed as an introduction to ceramics.  Students will explore functional and sculptural techniques through handbuilding and wheel-throwing, as well as basic claybody, glaze and firing theory.  Students will also develop a basic understanding of the historical and cultural aspects of ceramics.
Prerequisites: ARTS 202 and ARTS 203
ARTS 279 Digital Basics (3 Credit Hours)
This course is an introduction to the Macintosh operating system, design industry-standard software programs, and technical applications to visual arts and design production. The course provides an overview of Adobe software programs (Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign) and techniques for bitmap and vector image creation as well as page layout as used in print design and digital media development.
ARTS 281 Weaving and Fibers: Introduction (3 Credit Hours)
An introduction to various looms, tools, materials and techniques used in weaving and fabric dyeing; individual design projects.
Prerequisites: ARTS 202 and ARTS 203
ARTS 291 Introduction to Jewelry and Metalsmithing (3 Credit Hours)
This course is an introduction to the fundamentals of design and metal fabrication techniques for both jewelry and small objects. Working with precious and non-precious metals, students will learn traditional techniques including sawing, filing, cold connections, soldering, and polishing. A series of structured assignments guide students as they transform their ideas into finished works. Solutions for projects are open to enable the student to explore their own aesthetic while mastering the outlined material. Lectures on historical, contemporary and cultural examples of jewelry inform and inspire students' work.
Prerequisites: ARTS 203 or permission of the instructor
ARTS 300 Introduction to Computer Graphics (3 Credit Hours)
An introductory studio art course for non-art majors. The course is designed to acquaint students with industry standard graphic software, the Macintosh operating system, and its application to digital graphics production. It includes an overview of computer hardware and software used for visual communication.
Prerequisites: Junior standing
ARTS 311 Photography 2 (3 Credit Hours)
This course encourages the refinement of technical skills as well as emphasizing the critical framework in which to place photographic imagery.  Assignments will challenge students to think creatively and develop their unique perspective.  Reading, research, and discussion introduce students to the major photographic movements that have shaped current theory.
Prerequisites: ARTS 211 or permission of the instructor
ARTS 312 Lighting for Photography (3 Credit Hours)
This class explores controlled lighting for photography both inside and outside the studio. Emphasis is placed on exploring photographic concepts and the creative application of lighting technique and style both inside the studio and on location. Students will also investigate ways to communicate ideas through strong photographic imagery and how photography shapes and influences society through class readings and discussion.
Prerequisites: ARTS 211 or permission of the instructor
ARTS 313 Darkroom Photography (3 Credit Hours)
This course will focus on alternative as well as conventional techniques of the black and white darkroom. The class will approach image making with a focus on experimentation. Techniques covered will include photograms, pinhole photography, Van Dyke brown and gelatin silver prints. In addition to production of images, an early history of photography, beginning with the camera obscura, will be discussed. Class sessions will be divided into lecture/slide presentations, critique of students' work, demonstrations, and open lab time. Students will create a final portfolio to be reviewed as a class at the end of the semester.
Prerequisites: ARTS 211 or permission of the instructor
ARTS 321 Intermediate Glass: Hot and Flame (3 Credit Hours)
This course is structured to provide instruction to glass forming, balanced with the history, criticism, and aesthetics of glass art.  It is an intermediate course in the techniques of glassblowing, flame working, and coldworking, taught through a series of hands-on projects. Lectures, demonstrations, and critiques will encourage students to consider both the technical and conceptual manifestations of this material.  In addition, the Chrysler Museum’s extensive contemporary and historical glass collection and interaction with visiting and resident glass artists will be utilized.  The course allows students of intermediate levels to learn new techniques to advance to a higher level of art production.
Prerequisites: ARTS 203 and ARTS 221
ARTS 331 Drawing II (3 Credit Hours)
This is an intensive studio course that builds on the perceptual and technical skills developed in ARTS 231 . Using a variety of media including ink, charcoal, graphite, and chalk pastels, initial coursework will act as a review of direct observational drawing skills with an introduction to the formal optics of color perception and interaction through the framework of drawing. Students will begin exploring the expressive potential of drawing through thematically-driven projects during the second half of the semester.
Prerequisites: ARTS 231 and ARTS 202
ARTS 341 Painting II (3 Credit Hours)
An intensive studio course that builds on the perceptual and technical skills developed in ARTS 241 . Coursework includes a review and expansion of direct observational painting skills with exploration into the expressive potential of painting through thematically-driven projects.
Prerequisites: ARTS 241 and ARTS 331
ARTS 343 Techniques in Abstraction (3 Credit Hours)
This course serves to expose students to various techniques in contemporary abstraction. Students explore a range of strategies for producing both objective and non-objective abstract work using drawing and/or painting media.
Prerequisites: ARTS 341 or by permission of the instructor
ARTS 350 Advanced Printmaking (3 Credit Hours)
Further investigation of chosen print technique (screenprint, lithography, relief, or intaglio) with special attention to the implementation of color.
Prerequisites: ARTS 279 and any introductory printmaking course ( ARTS 254 , ARTS 257 , ARTS 258 , or ARTS 259 )
ARTS 351 Print II: The Hybrid Print (3 Credit Hours)
Students investigate the integration of traditional print media with digital prints, photographic techniques, and rapid prototyping technologies. Readings and discussions will explore the relationship between analog and digital media. Students choose a conceptual theme that will guide their work throughout the semester.
Prerequisites: ARTS 257 , ARTS 258 or ARTS 259 or permission of the instructor
ARTS 352 Print II: Medium Intensive (3 Credit Hours)
Students focus on a single print medium from Print I (Intaglio, Relief, Screenprint, Lithography, or Letterpress) for intensive study. Use of color, registration, and alternative techniques will be emphasized within a given medium. Students choose a conceptual theme that will guide their work throughout the semester.
Prerequisites: ARTS 257 , ARTS 258 or ARTS 259 or permission of the instructor
ARTS 361 Advanced Sculpture (3 Credit Hours)
Investigation involves the combination of various materials and construction techniques. Each student will improve their skills in fabrication to execute their research and concepts in object making and installation.
Prerequisites: ARTS 203 , ARTS 261 or permission of the instructor
ARTS 362 Ceramics Studio (3 Credit Hours)
This course is an introduction to the use of clay, also known as ceramics. It includes clay forming with pinch pots, slabs, coils and pottery wheels.
Prerequisites: by permission of instructor
ARTS 363 Intermediate Ceramics (3 Credit Hours)
Students will explore functional and sculptural techniques through handbuilding and wheel-throwing, as well as basic claybody, glaze and firing theory. Students will also develop a basic understanding of the historical and cultural aspects of ceramics.  The class includes glaze chemistry, firing procedures, ceramic history and contemporary ceramics.
Prerequisites: Permission of instructor
ARTS 368 Internship (1-3 Credit Hours)
A structured work experience involving aspects of design or craft, filmmaking, video, museum or gallery work, either with or without remuneration.  Criteria for evaluation will be determined by work supervisor and cooperating faculty advisor.
Prerequisites: approval by the department chair and Career Development Services is necessary prior to registration
ARTS 369 Practicum (1-3 Credit Hours)
A structured research experience, under the supervision of an art department faculty member. A paper evaluating/analyzing the research, a log of research progress, and satisfactory evaluation by the supervising faculty are required.
Prerequisites: approval by the department chair
ARTS 377 Extracurricular Studies (1-6 Credit Hours)
Extracurricular activities may be approved for credit based on objectives, criteria, and evaluative procedures as formally determined by the department and the student prior to the semester in which the activity is to take place.  Such credit is subject to review by the provost.
Prerequisites: approval by the department and the dean, in accordance with the policy on granting credit for extracurricular activities
ARTS 378 Extracurricular Studies (1-6 Credit Hours)
Extracurricular activities may be approved for credit based on objectives, criteria, and evaluative procedures as formally determined by the department and the student prior to the semester in which the activity is to take place.  Such credit is subject to review by the provost.
Prerequisites: approval by the department and the dean, in accordance with the policy on granting credit for extracurricular activities
ARTS 381 Weaving and Fibers: Intermediate (3 Credit Hours)
An overview of techniques related to pattern drafting, advanced loom and off-loom weaving, and fabric painting.
Prerequisites: ARTS 281 or permission of the instructor
ARTS 391 Intermediate Jewelry (3 Credit Hours)
This course will expand upon the fundamentals of design and metal fabrication techniques for jewelry. Working with precious and non-precious metals, students will learn traditional techniques including casting, stone setting and production processes. A series of structured assignments guide students as they transform their ideas into finished works. Solutions for projects are open to enable the student to explore their own aesthetic while mastering the outlined material. Lectures on historical, contemporary and cultural examples of jewelry inform and inspire students' work.
Prerequisites: ARTS 291 or permission of the instructor
ARTS 392 Blacksmithing (3 Credit Hours)
This course offers an introduction to the basic tools, materials and techniques used in forging, forming, hardening and tempering steel.  Exploration of form and process in working metal.
Prerequisites: ARTS 291 or permission of the instructor
ARTS 394 Intermediate Metalsmithing (3 Credit Hours)
This course will expand upon the fundamentals of design and metal fabrication techniques for small objects. Working with precious and non-precious metals, students learn traditional techniques including chase and repousse, raising and forming. A series of structured assignments guide students as they transform their ideas into finished works. Solutions for projects are open to enable the student to explore their own aesthetic while mastering the outlined material. Lectures on historical, contemporary and cultural examples of metalsmithing inform and inspire students' work.
Prerequisites: ARTS 291 or permission of the instructor
ARTS 395 Topics in Studio Art (3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics designed for non majors, or for elective credit within a major.  These courses will appear in the course schedule, and will be more fully described in information distributed to all academic advisors.
Prerequisites: appropriate survey or introductory course or permission of the instructor
ARTS 400 Senior Show (3 Credit Hours)
This is the capstone class for all students in the BFA program (except students in the graphic design concentration take ARTS 401). Focusing on the development and articulation of aesthetic vision and studio practice, students will identify key ideas and sources for their work. They will also clarify their methods and concepts to create a finished, exhibition quality project. The class also addresses professional installation, promotion, and documentation of finished work, culminating with an exhibition.
Prerequisites: Students must be in the final semester of major concentration
ARTS 411 Photography 3 (3 Credit Hours)
The course focuses on the photographic series examining reportage and contemporary narrative.  Students will work on developing a fully conceived photographic series on a theme developed through guided individual research.  Reading and discussion will provide students a critical framework in which to place their photographic imagery.
Prerequisites: ARTS 211 and ARTS 311 or permission of instructor
ARTS 412/512 Photo Seminar 1 (3 Credit Hours)
The first of a two-semester sequence of concentrated individual work.  Students will identify a topic and create a complete body of work culminating in the senior show, ARTS 400 .  Lectures, readings, discussion, critique, and field trips to develop the articulation of ideas and the clarification of purpose.
Prerequisites: ARTS 211 , ARTS 311 and ARTS 411 or permission of the instructor
ARTS 413/513 Photo Seminar 2 (3 Credit Hours)
This is the second in a two-semester sequence of concentrated individual work culminating in the senior show.  Through readings, discussion, critiques, field trips, and intense individual work, students will compile a body of work realizing their personal vision and articulate their ideas through the crafting of an artist statement.
Prerequisites: ARTS 211 , ARTS 311 , ARTS 411 and ARTS 412 or permission of the instructor
ARTS 421 Advanced Glass: Hot and Flame (3 Credit Hours)
This course is structured to provide instruction to glass forming, balanced with the history, criticism, and aesthetics of glass art.  It is an advanced course in the techniques of glassblowing and flame working. Lectures, demonstrations, and critiques will encourage students to consider both the technical and conceptual manifestations of this material.  In addition, the Chrysler Museum’s extensive contemporary and historical glass collection and interaction with visiting and resident glass artists will be utilized.  The course allows students to learn new techniques to advance to a higher level of art production.
Prerequisites: ARTS 203 , ARTS 221 and ARTS 321
ARTS 431/531 Drawing Studio (3 Credit Hours)
Further concentration on conceptual content and drawing skills, development of individual body of work exploring preferred concepts, subject matter, techniques, and media.  May be repeated for credit.
Prerequisites: ARTS 331
ARTS 432/532 Figure Drawing Anatomy (3 Credit Hours)
A study of visually important aspects of the structural, skeletal and muscular systems of the body.  Anatomical study will be related to drawing from the live model.
Prerequisites: ARTS 331 or permission of the instructor
ARTS 433/533 Figure Drawing/ Composition (3 Credit Hours)
This course places the emphasis on advanced composition using the figure as the central theme.  The figure's expressive potential, along with a study of historical responses to figure drawing, will be examined in depth.
Prerequisites: ARTS 432 / ARTS 532
ARTS 441 Advanced Painting and Drawing (3 Credit Hours)
An intensive studio course that builds upon skills developed in ARTS 331 and ARTS 341 . Students pursue various approaches to the development of pictorial space and investigate the connection between formal decision making, media use, and individual expression within their work.
Prerequisites: ARTS 341
ARTS 442/542 Painting and Drawing Studio (3 Credit Hours)
Students develop an individual body of work exploring preferred concepts, subject matter, techniques, and media in close consultation with faculty. Written proposal by students required at registration.
Prerequisites: ARTS 441 and ARTS 445
ARTS 445 Hybrid Approaches to Painting and Drawing (3 Credit Hours)
This course emphasizes hybrid approaches to contemporary drawing and painting including the integration of digital processes into studio practice and production. Students will be introduced to various applications and techniques regularly used in contemporary painting and drawing, including generating digital imagery, diorama construction and image compositing. Traditional and nontraditional media and subjects may be used to assist in the fulfillment of students’ analytical and expressive intentions.
Prerequisites: ARTS 341 or by permission of the instructor
ARTS 450/550 Printmaking III (3 Credit Hours)
Students create a body of personal work based on their research and interests. Readings, discussion, and presentations situate students’ practice within contemporary print discourses.
Prerequisites: ARTS 351 or ARTS 352 or permission of the instructor
ARTS 455/555 Letterpress Printmaking (3 Credit Hours)
A visual and literary investigation of language and wordplay using foundry and wood type and a Vandercook SP-20 proofing press.  Projects include expressive printed impressions of personal poetry and song lyric, political rant, and broadsides for entertainment or proselytizing.  A theme group project, such as a folio or a bound book, is usually assigned.
Prerequisites: ARTS 259 or permission of instructor
ARTS 456 2D Seminar (3 Credit Hours)
This course covers both theoretical and practical concerns within contemporary 2D art (painting, drawing, print. A combination of reading, writing, and critique develop and deepen the trajectory of students' creative practice.
Prerequisites: ARTS 450 or ARTS 441 or permission of the instructor
ARTS 461/561 Sculpture Studio (3 Credit Hours)
Experimental work reflecting individual initiative and attitude.
Prerequisites: ARTS 361 or ARTS 363 , and permission of the instructor
ARTS 463/563 Advanced Ceramics (3 Credit Hours)
An advanced course in the science and art of ceramics.  Students will engage in guided independent research, developing their own direction by investigating clay bodies, glazes, firing methods and contemporary ceramic art.
Prerequisites: ARTS 263 and ARTS 363
ARTS 469/569 Assemblage (3 Credit Hours)
Assemblage combines elements of various art and non-art media and materials. Lectures will be comprised of presentations about relevant artists, gallery and studio visits, and critiques.  Studio time allows students to explore personal directions in the medium.
Prerequisites: junior standing or permission of the instructor
ARTS 472/572 Art Therapy (3 Credit Hours)
This class is designed to initiate students from both studio art and non-studio backgrounds to the study of art therapy. It examines the history of art therapy in the United States, introduces the Expressive Therapies Continuum (ETC), and explores the application of art therapy techniques and their underlying rationales.
Prerequisites: Instructor permission required
ARTS 473/573 The Book (3 Credit Hours)
The book as a work of art.  Lecture will explore historical and technical aspects of book design and production.  Studio work will be devoted to the production of a series of books involving page design, paper selection, printing and binding.
Prerequisites: ARTS 202 , ARTS 279 , and junior standing or permission of the instructor
ARTS 481/581 Weaving and Fibers: Advanced (3 Credit Hours)
Advanced work in pattern drafting, loom techniques, off-loom weaving and fabric painting.
Prerequisites: ARTS 381
ARTS 491/591 Advanced Jewelry and Metalsmithing (3 Credit Hours)
This course offers further exploration and concentration on jewelry and metalsmithing techniques. Through readings, discussions, self-directed and self-determined projects, students will explore new methods and content to develop an individual body of work. Additional emphasis will be placed on developing supplemental portfolio materials. May be repeated once for credit.
ARTS 492 Wood Studio/Furniture Design (3 Credit Hours)
An exploration of concepts and techniques in wood sculpture and furniture design and fabrication.
Prerequisites: Junior standing
ARTS 493/593 Jewelry and Metalsmithing Studio (3 Credit Hours)
This course offers further exploration and concentration on jewelry and metalsmithing techniques. Through readings, discussions, self-directed and self-determined projects, students will explore new methods and content to develop an individual body of work. Additional emphasis will be placed on developing supplemental portfolio materials. May be repeated for credit once.
Prerequisites: ARTS 291 and either ARTS 391 or ARTS 393
ARTS 495/595 Topics in Studio Art (3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics designed to permit small groups of qualified students to work on studio projects of mutual interest.
Prerequisites: permission of the instructor
ARTS 497/597 Tutorial Work in Special Studio Topics (3 Credit Hours)
Independent investigation of a subject to be selected under the advisement of the instructor.  Conferences, papers, field trips, portfolios, or exhibitions as appropriate.
Prerequisites: senior standing and permission of the chief departmental advisor
ARTS 498 Tutorial Work in Special Studio Topics (3 Credit Hours)
Independent investigation of a subject to be selected under the advisement of the instructor.  Conferences, papers, field trips, portfolios, or exhibitions as appropriate.
Prerequisites: senior standing and permission of the chief departmental advisor
Graphic Design (GDES)
GDES 280 Introduction to Graphic Design (3 Credit Hours)
This course includes intensive study of the basic principles, theories and methods of graphic design, and the creation of visual communication. Topics of study include the characteristics and compositional principles applied to symbol, image, and letterform, as well as the history and practice of graphic design. Emphasis will be placed on creative process, developing visual concepts, formal values, use of materials, and craft. (Offered fall only)
Pre- or corequisite: ARTS 279 with a grade of C or higher
GDES 365 Basic Typography (3 Credit Hours)
This course includes intensive study of the history, terminology, theory, and application of typography, and the creation of visual communication with particular emphasis on typographic content. Topics of study include typographic form and meaning, hierarchy, legibility and readability, structure and composition, and the management of written content within the design process. Specialized technical instruction includes software applications for document construction, layout, and letterform manipulation, building upon the experiences of ARTS 279 . (Offered spring only)
Prerequisites: Graphic design major and GDES 280 with a grade of C or higher
GDES 368 Design Internship (3 Credit Hours)
This advanced course is an individualized internship that focuses on the student’s emphasis within the graphic design industry. It is normally taken during the last semester. Students participate on-site with professionals and are evaluated by predetermined curriculum objectives that have been agreed upon by the employer, instructor and student. This course provides the student with valuable on-the-job experience, interaction with industry professionals, and preparation for job entry. Students must interview for and acquire their internship site. It is recommended that the student seek out instructor expertise for possible recommendation.
Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor; approval by the department chair and Career Development Services is necessary prior to registration
GDES 371 Design Concepts (3 Credit Hours)
The course includes intensive study of the development of creative and effective ideation for application to graphic design problems from selected aspects of the field. Topics of study include project research, content development, messaging, and individual and collaborative creative processes. Emphasis will be placed on critical skills, articulation, productivity, and response to clients, audiences and contexts. (Offered fall only)
Prerequisites: GDES 280 with a grade of C or higher
GDES 372 Advanced Typography (3 Credit Hours)
This is an elective course restricted to students admitted to the graphic design program. It continues the development of typographic practice, exploring issues pertaining to meaning, concept, and expression. The course will also include investigation of typographic history. Topics of study include advanced issues in typographic composition, denotative and connotative aspects of type use, typeface selection, and typesetting.
Prerequisites: GDES 365 with a grade of C or higher
GDES 373 Design Systems (3 Credit Hours)
This course is restricted to students admitted to the graphic design program, and is the fourth course in the graphic design sequence. The course includes intensive study of the development of creative and effective ideation for application across coordinated graphic design campaigns. Projects will address design in series and across multiple formats and media for commercial, promotional, educational, and informational contexts. (Offered spring only)
Prerequisites: GDES 371
GDES 374 Web Design (3 Credit Hours)
This advanced course is an introduction to the basic methods and techniques used to design for web-based delivery. Topics of study include; site management and organization, navigation, grid structures, hierarchy and inventory of content, appropriate use of type and graphics, and format. Emphasis will be placed on process and research, appropriateness, accessibility, dynamic user interface experiences.
Prerequisites: GDES 371 with a grade of C or higher and GDES 372 with a grade of C or higher or permission of the instructor
GDES 378 Brand Identity (3 Credit Hours)
This course is devoted to the study and design of coordinated systems of visual communication elements used to identify a company or cause. Projects will address project research, creative brief development, messaging, and effective ideation for application across coordinated graphic design campaigns for print and digital delivery.
Prerequisites: GDES 280 with a grade of C or higher
GDES 381 Interactive Design (3 Credit Hours)
This advanced course is devoted to creating dynamic design solutions for interactive devices, systems, and services. Students will learn to apply observational techniques to understand interactions in context, develop conceptual models and representations to assess the perspectives of prospective users, and develop interactions that are understandable and useful. Students will be introduced to the fundamental digital design process, and will experiment with a variety of interactive and dynamic design applications.
Prerequisites: GDES 371 with a grade of C or higher and GDES 372 with a grade of C or higher or permission of the instructor
GDES 382 UI (User Interface) Design (3 Credit Hours)
UI (User Interface) designers focus on developing the aesthetics, or the point of contact, of interactive experiences. This course is intended to provide students with the skills needed to utilize traditional design principles to create interactive experiences for a range of platforms. Students will explore key topics such as Principles of User Interface Design, Responsive Design, Design Systems,  Wireframing, and  Prototyping, gaining  a comprehensive  skill set to shape the visual and interactive landscapes of digital interfaces.
Prerequisites: GDES 280 , GDES 365 , GDES 371 , and GDES 378 , all with a grade of C or higher
GDES 383 UX (User Experience) Design (3 Credit Hours)
UX (User Experience) designers ensure that digital experiences are relevant to users. This course is intended to provide students with the skills to create experiences focused on user needs and built on research and data. Students will explore key topics such as User Research Methods, User Journeys, and Usability Testing.
Prerequisites: GDES 280 , GDES 365 , GDES 371 , and GDES 378 , all with a grade of C or higher
GDES 385 Advanced Graphic Design (3 Credit Hours)
Building on concepts introduced in GDES 280 , the course will consider and engage the collaborative, complex, and interrelated nature of design practice, in public and private manifestations, and through form and concept. The personal dimensions of design practice will also be explored through a self-determined project.
Prerequisites: GDES 280 , GDES 365 , GDES 371 , and GDES 378 , all with a grade of C or higher
GDES 386 Socially Conscious Design (3 Credit Hours)
This course delves into the realm of visual communication as a powerful tool for advocating social, environmental, and justice issues. Students will explore the transformative potential of graphic design in fostering positive change within society. As the world faces pressing challenges, this course empowers artists to leverage their creative skills and voices to contribute meaningfully to the betterment of our global community. Key topics covered include ethical design principles and the responsibility of designers in shaping inclusive narratives. Through practical exercises, projects, and case studies, students will develop the skills to navigate the delicate balance between aesthetics and advocacy, ensuring that their designs not only captivate but also inspire positive action.
Prerequisites: GDES 280 , GDES 365 , GDES 371 , and GDES 378 , all with a grade of C or higher
GDES 395 Topics in Graphic Design (3 Credit Hours)
Selected topics designed for elective credit within the graphic design program.
Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor
GDES 470 Design Services (3 Credit Hours)
Design services acts as an independent design agency. Students will gain experience working directly with clients on a design project; discover the aspects of developing commissioned design projects; and consider the legal, practical and ethical considerations of working as an independent (freelance) designer.
Prerequisites: GDES 280 , GDES 365 , GDES 371 , and GDES 378 , all with a grade of C or higher
GDES 474 Motion Graphics (3 Credit Hours)
This advanced course is an introduction to the basics of motion graphic design processes, and focuses on the creative and technical processes of creating motion graphics (predominantly 2D) for a variety of mediums including film, broadcast, DVD, and web. Students will gain practical experience in the development of an animated broadcast graphics package. Motion graphics in the context of interactive interfaces is also explored.
Prerequisites: GDES 371 with a grade of C or higher and GDES 372 with a grade of C or higher or permission of the instructor
GDES 480 Advanced New Media (3 Credit Hours)
Modern graphic design often includes the creation of multi-faceted experimental experiences. This course is intended to provide students with an advanced studio experience, where they will utilize a wide range of software to create experiences that push what each individual student thinks is possible. This course may cover topics such as 3D Modeling, Motion Graphics, Augmented Reality, Installation Art, and more.
Prerequisites: GDES 280 , GDES 365 , GDES 371 , and GDES 378 , all with a grade of C or higher
GDES 490 Design Seminar (3 Credit Hours)
This course is restricted to students admitted to the graphic design program, and is the seventh course in the graphic design sequence. This course introduces students to the broader opportunities and directions present in contemporary design. Through readings, discussion, and self-directed and self-determined projects, students will explore personal directions and sensibilities in their design practice. (Offered fall only)
Prerequisites: GDES 373 with a grade of C or higher
GDES 491 Design Capstone (3 Credit Hours)
This is the concluding course in the graphic design major. Students will prepare for transition to design practice/appreciation or graduate study through the completion of a thesis project appropriate to personal and career goals. Course topics will include creating a portfolio of design work, career options, self-promotion, resume preparation, graduate study, and interview skills. All students are required to present their work at the Graphic Design Gala. Additional review may be required by syllabus. (Offered spring only)
Prerequisites: GDES 490 with a grade of C or higher
Pre- or corequisite: 12 hours of Graphic Design elective coursework
GDES 497 Tutorial Work in Graphic Design (3 Credit Hours)
An independent investigation of a subject selected and conducted under the advisement of a graphic design instructor.
Prerequisites: Senior standing and permission of instructor and the chief departmental advisor
Search catalog
