Department website: http://www.odu.edu/eng
1105 Engineering Systems Building 757-683-3789
Kenneth Fridley, Dean Jeffrey Lacombe, Associate Dean for Undergraduate and Graduate Education Sharif Ishak, Associate Dean for Research & Innovation Stacie Ringleb, Associate Dean for Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Access Anthony Dean, Assistant Dean for Maritime and Defense Initiatives
Mission Statement
In accordance with the mission of Old Dominion University, the Frank Batten College of Engineering and Technology promotes the advancement of engineering knowledge, both by its creation and dissemination and by providing successful graduates and a continuously improving learning environment to its constituents, while maintaining ethical, multicultural and global standards.
Overview
The Frank Batten College of Engineering and Technology at Old Dominion University offers degrees in engineering and engineering technology.
The graduate engineering programs at Old Dominion University are specifically designed to take advantage of and enhance unique assets in the Hampton Roads area, a complex of seven major cities. These assets include: 1) a strong military presence with multiple high technology facilities, particularly as it relates to modeling and simulation; 2) the NASA Langley Research Center with its focus on aeronautics and space exploration; 3) the Jefferson Laboratories, a major center of nuclear physics and home of a major Free Electron Laser;  4) one of the major international deep-water ports on the east coast of the United States;  5) a major ship building and ship repair industry, including Newport News Shipbuilding, the only builder of nuclear aircraft carriers in the U.S.;  6) a major high technology industry base; and  7) a variety of commercial enterprises. These assets have enabled the development of distinctive engineering curricula.
Master’s Programs
The Batten College of Engineering and Technology grants the following master’s degrees: Master of Science in Engineering, Master of Engineering, Master of Science in Engineering Management, and Master of Engineering Management. The programs of study leading to the master’s degree are listed avo.  Interested students should refer to the individual program section of this catalog for admission information and degree requirements.
Linked Bachelor's/Master's Degree Programs
These are designed to allow qualified students to secure a space in a master's program available in the Frank Batten College of Engineering and Technology while they are still pursuing their undergraduate degrees. An eligible student can choose a master's program in the same discipline as his/her bachelor's program or in a complementary discipline. Subject to the approval of the undergraduate and graduate program directors, a student enrolled in a linked program can count up to six credit hours of course work towards both the undergraduate and the graduate degrees. Full-time students may be able to complete the requirements for the bachelor's degree in four years and the master's degree in one additional year.  Students in linked programs must earn a minimum of 150 credit hours (120 discrete credit hours for the undergraduate degree and 30 discrete credit hours for the graduate degree).
Students who are matriculated in an undergraduate major in the Frank Batten College of Engineering and Technology with a GPA of at least 3.00 overall and 3.00 in the major are eligible to apply for admission to a linked bachelor's/master's program. Transfer students who desire to be admitted to a linked program at the time they join an undergraduate major at Old Dominion University are eligible to apply if their overall GPA at their previous institution is 3.25 or higher. Prerequisite courses may be required for engineering technology majors to pursue a master's degree in engineering.
Continuance in a linked bachelor's/master's program requires maintenance of a GPA of 3.00 or higher overall and in the major.
Bachelor-to-PhD Programs
For a select number of exceptionally well-qualified students, the college has established a linked doctoral program that enables students to be admitted directly into the PhD program upon completion of the baccalaureate degree. A select number of exceptionally well-qualified students can be admitted to the Bachelor/PhD program in their junior year while they are pursuing one of the undergraduate programs at Old Dominion University. This program encourages admitted students to work closely with faculty members and pursue a research experience. Just as in the linked Bachelor/MS program, six credit hours of graduate course work may again be counted towards the undergraduate degree and doctoral course work mentioned above for the Bachelor/PhD program. For linked bachelor's to doctoral programs, students must earn a minimum of 198 credit hours (120 discrete credit hours for the undergraduate degree and 78 discrete credit hours for the graduate degree). Students in these programs must maintain a GPA of 3.50 or better throughout their bachelor's and doctoral studies.
The student may opt to obtain the master's degree along the way to the doctorate. To obtain the master's degree, the student must utilize the six graduate credits obtained as part of their undergraduate program, use 18 credits of the graduate course work that is part of the PhD, and work with the Graduate Program Director to plan the final 6 credits.
Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) Programs
The Batten College of Engineering and Technology grants the Doctor of Philosophy degree in Engineering. The programs of study leading to the Ph.D. degree are listed in Table 1.  All Ph.D. programs require a minimum of 24 credit hours of dissertation research and 24 credits of coursework beyond an MS degree.  Three-fifths of these courses (15 credit hours) must be completed at the 800 level. Interested students should refer to the individual program section of this catalog for admission information and additional degree requirements.
Interdisciplinary Graduate Certificate Programs
The college has established several certificate programs that enable students to specialize in technical areas of current interest to industry, government and academia. Both non-degree and degree-seeking students can enroll in the certificate programs. The programs provide the opportunity for practicing engineers to further their knowledge and become more competent in their profession.
Departments
