Human Services (HMSV)
HMSV 339 Interpersonal Relations (3 Credit Hours)
Students will learn concepts and theories of interpersonal relationships.  Development of skills necessary for effective communication will be stressed.
Prerequisites: ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C
HMSV 341 Introduction to Human Services (3 Credit Hours)
Students will learn about human services, the helping process, and the role and function of the human service worker.  Students will be exposed to local and state human services facilities.
Prerequisites: ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C OR acceptance to the certificate in Addiction Prevention and Treatment and a test code of APTW
HMSV 343 Human Services Methods (3 Credit Hours)
Presents theories and techniques used by human services workers in a variety of settings.
Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C OR acceptance to the certificate in Addiction Prevention and Treatment and a test code of APTW
Pre- or corequisite: HMSV 341 with a grade of C or better
HMSV 344 Career Development and Appraisal (3 Credit Hours)
Focuses on career development throughout the life span with emphasis on vocational theories, interventions, assessments, and socioeconomic factors.
Prerequisites: Junior standing
Pre- or corequisite: HMSV 341 with a grade of C or higher
HMSV 346 Diversity Issues in Human Services (3 Credit Hours)
This course serves as an introduction to multicultural helping.  The influence of socio-identities (e.g., race, ethnicity, religion, gender, socioeconomic status, sexual orientation) on individuals' functioning, concerns, and the helping process will be explored.
Prerequisites: Junior standing
Pre- or corequisite: HMSV 341 with a grade of C or higher
HMSV 368 Case Management & Crisis Techniques through Field Observation (3 Credit Hours)
Students will visit and examine human services systems such as mental health, substance abuse, criminal justice, education, rehabilitation, and professional associations to facilitate decision-making in selecting an internship and to gain a complex understanding of the roles of the human services professional.
Prerequisites: HMSV 341 with a grade a C or higher and HMSV 343 with a grade of C or higher OR acceptance to the certificate in Addiction Prevention and Treatment and a test code of APTW
HMSV 397 Independent Study (3-6 Credit Hours)
Individual study under the supervision of an undergraduate faculty member.
Prerequisites: Approval of Human Services Program Director and Counseling and Human Services Department Chair
HMSV 440W Program Development, Implementation, and Funding (3 Credit Hours)
This course presents models and practices in evaluating, monitoring, and implementing human services programs.  The course includes an overview of funding, creating budgets and monitoring expenditures for programs. This is an upper-level writing intensive class. A grade of C or better is required.
Prerequisites: HMSV 341 with a C or better, HMSV 343 with a C or better, and ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C with a C or better
HMSV 444 Psycho-educational Groups (3 Credit Hours)
This course combines lectures and experiential learning about psycho-educational groups.  Principles and practices for developing and leading psycho-educational groups are emphasized.
Prerequisites: HMSV 341 with a grade of C or higher and HMSV 343 with a grade of C or higher
HMSV 447 Introduction to Substance Abuse (3 Credit Hours)
This course develops the professional identity of the student as a practitioner of substance abuse services while introducing the student to the signs and symptoms of substance abuse, the recovery process and relapse prevention methods.
Prerequisites: HMSV 341 with a grade of C or better and HMSV 343 with a grade of C or better OR acceptance to the certificate in Addiction Prevention and Treatment and a test code of APTW
HMSV 448 Interventions and Advocacy with Children (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides an overview of how human service workers assist children in a variety of settings.  Emphasis will be placed upon advocacy, supportive work, and short term crisis intervention.
Prerequisites: HMSV 341 with a grade of C or higher and HMSV 343 with a grade of C or higher
HMSV 449 Crisis Intervention, Prevention and Ethics (3 Credit Hours)
This course explores effective crisis intervention, examines prevention strategies, and develops students' ethical decision making within human service practice.
Prerequisites: HMSV 341 with a grade of C or higher and HMSV 343 with a grade of C or higher OR acceptance to the certificate in Addiction Prevention and Treatment and a test code of APTW
HMSV 452 Substance Abuse Treatment and Research (3 Credit Hours)
This course explores effective substance abuse treatment planning and intervention strategies through lectures and experiential learning and examines research trends in the substance abuse field.
Prerequisites: HMSV 341 with a grade of C or better, HMSV 343 with a grade of C or better and HMSV 447 with a grade of C or better OR acceptance to the certificate in Addiction Prevention and Treatment and a test code of APTW
HMSV 468 Internship in Human Services (12 Credit Hours)
This course involves field placement in a human services setting. Approximately 400 hours are devoted to field placement, group seminars and individual supervision.
Prerequisites: Completion of all coursework including General Education requirements, core courses, major courses, and elective courses; a grade of C or better in all prior HMSV courses and program approval is required
Pre- or corequisite: HMSV 339 , HMSV 341 , HMSV 343 , HMSV 344 , HMSV 346 , HMSV 368 , HMSV 440W , HMSV 444 , HMSV 447 or HMSV 448 , HMSV 449 , HMSV 452 or HMSV 494 , and HMSV 491
HMSV 491 Family Guidance (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides a study of the family as a system and an introduction to a variety of issues confronting the family, including child abuse, substance abuse and addiction, spouse abuse, and others that produce more than usual stress in the family. Available community resources for helping families will be examined.
Prerequisites: HMSV 341 with a grade of C or higher and HMSV 343 with a grade of C or higher
HMSV 494 Entrepreneurship in Human Services and Non-Profit Fundraising (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to expose human service students to the art of ethical fund-raising in human services, including annual and capital campaigns, telemarketing, special events, direct mail marketing, face-to-face solicitation, e-fund-raising, and grant writing. This course replaced HMSV 441. Students with credit for HMSV 441 cannot receive credit toward their degree for HMSV 494 .
Prerequisites: HMSV 341 with a grade of C or higher and HMSV 343 with a grade of C or higher
HMSV 495 Topics in Human Services (1-6 Credit Hours)
The study of selected topics in human services.
Prerequisites: senior standing or permission of the instructor
Search catalog
