Info For Military Students
Military Service Members and Veterans
Transform your experience into a degree that moves with you. Offering flexible, military-friendly programs tailored to your goals.
Image
Credit for Military Training and Experience
We offer rank-based college credit, up to 15 credit hours for E6-E9 personnel. We recognize and value training for specialties like engineering, communication, instruction and leadership.
Our unique military pathways provide flexible options to earn college credit through exams such as CLEP and DSST/DANTES, as well as your training and experience, minimizing in-class requirements to save you time and money.
Why ODUGlobal for Military Service Members?
$250 per credit hour
Learn More About Credit for Rank
Online Degrees and Certificates
Advance Your Career with High-Demand Programs. Explore degrees in Cybersecurity, Logistics, Engineering, and more—fields that support advancement in both military and civilian roles. Our programs are designed to build on your experience, helping you gain valuable skills for today’s workforce and tomorrow’s opportunities
Military Benefits
Proudly Serving Those Who Serve
For decades, ODUGlobal has proudly supported military members and veterans, building a reputation as a military-friendly institution. Our deep ties to all military service branches illustrate our long-standing commitment to providing accessible, quality education that adapts to your life and career.
Military Scholarships
Image
This institution is approved to offer GI Bill® educational benefits by the Virginia State Approving Agency. GI Bill® is a registered trademark of the U.S Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). More information about education benefits offered by VA is available at the official U.S. government website at http://www.benefits.va.gov/gibill
Military and Veteran Student Stories
Image
Military Partners and Support Services
We're proud to partner with military education programs that support our courageous service members at home and overseas. For students in the military, online university programs provide an opportunity to continue and advance your education no matter where your career takes you.
Your Dedicated Military Connection Center
ODU’s Military Connection Center is here to support your journey from service to civilian life.
Explore Our Services:
Career Resources for a smooth military-to-civilian transition
Military Benefit Assistance to maximize your GI Bill, tuition discounts, and more
Visit the Military Connection Center
Military Education Partners
We've partnered with military colleges and programs to help active-duty military service members and their families advance their education, no matter where they are.
