Colleges & Schools
College of Arts & Letters
From actor to journalist; diplomat to musician; philosopher to lawyer - a solid foundation in arts and letters will prepare you for rigorous, intellectual and creative inquiry
Explore Arts & Letters
Strome College of Business
Whether you are interested in accounting, banking or becoming a CEO, we prepare you for success in modern business, and for what's coming next.
Explore Business
Darden College of Education & Professional Studies
From education, STEM technology and counseling, to human movement science, industry training and communication disorders, our diverse programs are recognized nationally for meeting the needs of our global society.
Explore Education & Professional Studies
Batten College of Engineering
The Frank Batten College of Engineering & Technology at Old Dominion University is built on a foundation of innovation and excellence in engineering education.
Explore Engineering
Ellmer College of Health Sciences
The Ellmer College of Health Sciences will prepare you with the skills to improve individual and community health through research and global connections.
Explore Health Sciences
College of Sciences
If you're a puzzle solver, the College of Sciences has an engaging program with well-equipped research environments to develop you into the scientist and innovator of tomorrow.
Explore Sciences
Joint School of Public Health
The Joint School of Public Health is a collaborative partnership between Old Dominion University and Norfolk State University to offer experiential learning and research opportunities across multiple campuses.
Explore Public Health
School of Cybersecurity
As part of ODU's Interdisciplinary Schools , our mission is to promote cybersecurity research and education in an interdisciplinary setting. Faculty and staff from across all colleges and reporting units at the university, including Information Technology Services, VMASC and Military Affairs.
Explore Cybersecurity
School of Data Science
As part of ODU's Interdisciplinary Schools , the School of Data Science features a unique collaboration with the nearby Thomas Jefferson National Accelerator Laboratory.
Explore Data Science
Ellmer School of Nursing
The Ellmer School of Nursing helps students at all levels of their medical career advance, offering bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees as well as specialized certificates.
Explore Nursing
Eastern Virginia Medical School
The Eastern Virginia Medical School is dedicated to medical and health education, biomedical research and the enhancement of healthcare in the Hampton Roads region.
Explore the Medical School
EVMS School of Health Professions
The EVMS School of Health Professions provides progressive, nationally recognized graduate training at facilities throughout Hampton Roads. Our graduates are dedicated to the health of the community.
Explore Health Professions
School of Supply Chain, Logistics & Maritime Operations
As part of ODU's Interdisciplinary Schools , we address the growing demand for a skilled logistics workforce by offering interdisciplinary supply chain and maritime degrees.
Explore Supply Chain, Logistics & Maritime Operations
Perry Honors College
Imagine an undergraduate education where passions become possibilities, and first-hand experiences give shape to your goals. Where academic strengths become professional skills, and civic engagement is an essential metric of success.
Explore Honors
Graduate School
The Old Dominion University Graduate School is proud to be a part of a community of scholars dedicated to the principles of equity, inclusion, and diversity. Our priority is the provision of the richest and most effective educational experience possible.
Explore the Graduate School
Right where you are
ODUGlobal will help you fit education into your busy life. Whatever the time, wherever the place, we make it work for you.
