FIN 195 Topics (3 Credit Hours)
Study of selected topics.
FIN 210S Personal Financial Literacy (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides basic financial information an informed individual should understand in order to successfully reach their personal goals.  Topics include budgeting, goal setting, the process of accumulating and protecting wealth, use of credit, the car and housing decisions, and risk management.   Emphasis is on understanding how our behaviors affect successfully reaching these goals and how to improve decision making.
Prerequisites: MATH 101M or higher
FIN 220 Bloomberg Data System/Wall Street 101 (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide students with basic knowledge of Wall Street while learning how to utilize Bloomberg Terminals to gain practical knowledge and experience. The Bloomberg Lab and Trading Room provides students with access to the comprehensive data system used by major national and international companies, financial organizations, and government agencies.  Students are required to complete Bloomberg Market Concepts program and earn a Bloomberg Certification, of value to many employers. Students will utilize an interactive trading game to experience the role of Wall Street traders and market makers.
FIN 323 Introductory Financial Management (3 Credit Hours)
Financial analysis, planning, and control in the business enterprise. An introduction to budgeting, problems in long- and short-term financing, sources of capital and financial markets.
Prerequisites: ACCT 201 or ACCT 226 , ACCT 202 or ACCT 227 , and ECON 202S or ECON 227S ; a declared major in the University or an intended major in the Strome College of Business or permission of the Dean's Office of the Strome College; AND Junior Standing
FIN 331 Legal Environment of Business (3 Credit Hours)
Introduction to the legal environment of business, providing the student with an understanding of the nature of public law and the regulation of business and of the basic principles that control business practices.
Prerequisites: A declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
FIN 333 The Legal Environment of Electronic Commerce (3 Credit Hours)
This course will focus on the identification and management of legal issues and problems that confront businesses taking part in the rapidly growing internet economy.  Issues will include the establishment and protection of an online identity, electronic contracting, libel, product and firm disparagement, and unfair consumer practices.
Prerequisites: FIN 331 , and  a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
FIN 367 Cooperative Education (1-6 Credit Hours)
Available for pass/fail grading only.  May be repeated for credit up to a maximum of 6 credits.
Prerequisites: approval by the department and Career Development Services in accordance with the policy for granting credit for Cooperative Education programs and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
FIN 368 Finance Internship (1-3 Credit Hours)
Student participation in a professional work experience.  Approval for enrollment and allowable credits is determined by the Finance department chair and the Career Development Services in the semester prior to enrollment. A transfer student must have completed one semester at Old Dominion University.
Prerequisites: a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
FIN 387 Honors: Introductory Financial Management (3 Credit Hours)
A special honors section of FIN 323 .  Open only to students in the Honors Program in Business Administration.
Prerequisites: ACCT 201 or ACCT 226 , ACCT 202 or ACCT 227 , and ECON 202S and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
FIN 388 Honors: Legal Environment of Business (3 Credit Hours)
A special honors section of FIN 331 .  Open only to students in the Honors Program in Business Administration.
Prerequisites: a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
FIN 414 Estate Planning (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide students with a background in the field of estate planing. Topics will include wills and trusts, the probate system, estate and gift taxation, and fiduciary income taxation.
Prerequisites: ACCT 421 (or permission of instructor) and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
FIN 415 Capstone in Financial Plan Development (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide students majoring in personal financial planning with the ability to integrate technical material from previous coursework and prepare a comprehensive financial plan.  Emphasis will be on integrating knowledge, preparing a financial plan, and effectively communicating with a client.  Case studies will be emphasized.
Corequisites: FIN 414
FIN 431 Investments (3 Credit Hours)
This course develops the financial tools and knowledge needed to select among alternative financial assets.  The emphasis is on the individual investor.  Real world experience includes stock analysis, portfolio simulations and interactions with professionals in the securities industry.
Prerequisites: FIN 323 with a grade of C or better and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
FIN 432 Intermediate Financial Management (3 Credit Hours)
Theoretical framework relevant to decision making in financial management; capital budgeting, capital structure, cost of capital, and working capital management.
Prerequisites: FIN 323 with a grade of C or better and junior standing
FIN 433 Introduction to Futures and Options (3 Credit Hours)
An introduction to the understanding of futures and options.  Basic features and trading mechanisms; valuation of financial derivatives; methods of managing financial risk; arbitrage techniques; and speculation strategies.
Prerequisites: FIN 323 with a grade of C or better and FIN 431 and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
FIN 434 Management of Financial Institutions (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of the objectives, functions, policies, organizational practices, and government regulations of financial institutions.
Prerequisites: FIN 323 with a grade of C or better and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
FIN 435 International Financial Management (3 Credit Hours)
Financial decision making involving flow and funds across national boundaries.
Prerequisites: FIN 323 with a grade of C or better and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
FIN 439 Financial Decision Making (3 Credit Hours)
Application of financial theory and techniques to the analysis and solution of actual financial problems.  Case analysis.
Prerequisites: FIN 432 with a grade of C or better and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office
FIN 441 Student Managed Investment Fund (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide students with experience managing an investment fund.  The students will apply the theoretical knowledge of finance to manage a real portfolio.
FIN 497 Selected Topics in Finance (3 Credit Hours)
For advanced students in financial management.
Prerequisites: permission of the department chair
FIN 610 Principles of Risk and Insurance (3 Credit Hours)
Risk theory as applied to the various fields of insurance, including life, health, property-liability and employee benefits.
Prerequisites: graduate standing and permission of the graduate program director
FIN 613 Financial Management (2 Credit Hours)
To develop an integrated approach to the methodologies necessary for the understanding of modern corporate finance.  Emphasis will be on integration of accounting and other internally generated information with external economic information within a framework for financial planning and valuation.
Prerequisites: MBA 600 , MBA 638 , and ECON 607 OR MBA 600 , MBA 601, MBA 602, MBA 603, and MBA 604 and ACCT 611
FIN 616 Investments and Portfolio Management (2 Credit Hours)
This course will provide students with an understanding of the theory and practice of investment decision making.  Students will learn to analyze risk and return characteristics of individual securities and portfolios and develop valuation models of various financial instruments.  Using insights from modern portfolio theory and equilibrium models of security prices, students will develop a framework for assessing the risk-return tradeoff.  The topics covered and tools developed in the course will be applicable for personal investment as well.
Prerequisites: FIN 613
FIN 619 Business Law and Ethics (2 Credit Hours)
This course will introduce key principles of jurisprudence, dispute resolution, tort, constitutional, intellectual property and contract law.  Students will learn to create the ability to recognize when a matter poses a legal issue in the ordinary course of business and identify alternative solutions that the law will support and consider the ethical/moral implications of business decisions that the law does not yet address.
Prerequisites: Admission to the MBA Program, MBA 600 , MBA 601, MBA 602, MBA 603, and MBA 604
FIN 633 The Legal Environment of Business and the Age of Electronic Commerce (3 Credit Hours)
An understanding of the traditional legal environment of business issues is essential for management to successively utilize e-commerce and respond to legal problems that it will present.  The course therefore examines dispute resolution, constitutional, tort, criminal, contract and property law, both in the context of traditional business practice and as applied to e-commerce.
Prerequisites: graduate standing
FIN 668 Finance Internship (1-3 Credit Hours)
The course is a practicum in the field of finance, applying theories, concepts, and financial management tools in a business environment.
Prerequisites: FIN 605, graduate standing, and permission of the department chair
FIN 697 Selected Topics in Finance (1-3 Credit Hours)
Study designed for students who have had one or more of the required courses waived, or for students desiring additional work in a finance area of particular interest.
Prerequisites: permission from the department chair and the graduate program director
FIN 698 Selected Topics in Real Estate (3 Credit Hours)
Study designed for students who have had one or more of the required courses waived, or for students desiring additional work in a finance area of particular interest.
Prerequisites: permission from the department chair and the graduate program director
FIN 699 Selected Topics in Insurance (3 Credit Hours)
Study designed for students who have had one or more of the required courses waived, or for students desiring additional work in an insurance area of particular interest.
Prerequisites: permission from the department chair and the graduate program director
FIN 735 Portfolio Analysis (3 Credit Hours)
A mathematical analysis of modern investment theory. Analyzes return and risk characteristics of individual securities and portfolios and develops valuation models of various financial instruments.
Prerequisites: FIN 605
FIN 737 International Financial Management (3 Credit Hours)
Examines such topics as the financial aspects of international business including financing and hedging activities of firms involved in international transfer of goods and services and decision making in connection with the asset management financing activities of multinational corporations.
Prerequisites: FIN 605
FIN 740 Futures and Options (3 Credit Hours)
In no area of finance is the interface between academic theory and real-world practice as close as in the case of futures and options.  We have  now reached a stage where it is essential that all finance professionals understand how these markets work, how they can be used, and what determines prices in them.  This course addresses all these issues.
Prerequisites: FIN 605
FIN 741 Corporate Financial Policy and Control (3 Credit Hours)
The course will comprise mainly cases but there will be some lecturing particularly on material not covered in FIN 605.
Prerequisites: FIN 605
FIN 795 Selected Topics in Finance (3 Credit Hours)
Designed to provide the advanced student with an opportunity to study independently or in small groups and investigate specific topics of current interest in the field of finance.
Prerequisites: Ph.D. standing and permission of the chair and coordinator
FIN 835 Portfolio Analysis (3 Credit Hours)
A mathematical analysis of modern investment theory. Analyzes return and risk characteristics of individual securities and portfolios and develops valuation models of various financial instruments.
Prerequisites: FIN 605
FIN 837 International Financial Management (3 Credit Hours)
Examines such topics as the financial aspects of international business including financing and hedging activities of firms involved in international transfer of goods and services and decision making in connection with the asset management financing activities of multinational corporations.
Prerequisites: FIN 605
FIN 860 Advanced Financial Theory (3 Credit Hours)
This course discusses the building blocks which much of financial theory is based on. In addition, a number of current topics in the literature are analyzed. Students are expected to read many of the original journal articles.
FIN 861 Seminar in Investments (3 Credit Hours)
The purpose of this course is to be acquainted with recent theoretical and empirical literature on investments, portfolio management and speculative instruments.  Emphasis will be placed on the development of methodological approaches to the various research problems.
Prerequisites: FIN 737 / FIN 837
FIN 862 Seminar in International Finance (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide an in-depth understanding of the key issues of international financial management.  Topics covered include balance of payments, interest rates, international capital flows/markets and asset pricing, foreign exchange risk management, and international capital budgeting.
Prerequisites: FIN 737 / FIN 837
FIN 863 Seminar in Current Financial Topics (3 Credit Hours)
This course is structured to provide the student with research developments that lie on the frontier of corporate financial management.  Topics covered include optimal investment and financing decisions, cost of capital, option pricing theory, equilibrium valuation models, efficient capital markets, capital structure, dividend policy, mergers and acquisitions and international financial management.
Prerequisites: FIN 735 / FIN 835 and FIN 737 / FIN 837
FIN 864 Empirical Asset Pricing (3 Credit Hours)
This course represents an advanced study of empirical research methods in finance. It focuses on the empirical techniques used most often in the analysis of financial markets and how they are applied to actual market data. Topics includes: statistical properties of asset returns, nonlinear dynamics, and volatility modeling of financial assets.
FIN 865 Financial Econometrics Methods (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide an in-depth discussion of econometrics methods used to study financial markets with a focus on time series analysis.
Prerequisites: FIN 864
FIN 895 Selected Topics in Finance (3 Credit Hours)
Designed to provide the advanced student with an opportunity to study independently or in small groups and investigate specific topics of current interest in the field of finance.
Prerequisites: Ph.D. standing and permission of the chair and coordinator
FIN 899 Dissertation (1-12 Credit Hours)
An approved research project, written under the supervision of a faculty advisor, in which the student demonstrates the ability to conduct original research.  The complete project must be approved by the dissertation committee.
Prerequisites: FIN 863
FIN 998 Master's Graduate Credit (1 Credit Hour)
This course is a pass/fail course for master's students in their final semester. It may be taken to fulfill the registration requirement necessary for graduation.  All master's students are required to be registered for at least one graduate credit hour in the semester of their graduation.
Search catalog
