General Linked Program Options
BA or BS to MBA (Master of Business Administration) Linked Program
The linked BA/MBA or BS/MBA program is an early entry to the MBA program of study.  The early-entry program is designed for well qualified non-business undergraduate ODU students to start their MBA program prior to completing their undergraduate degree.  Well qualified non-business undergraduate students may take MBA-level courses as early as three semesters prior to graduation and count up to 12 graduate credits toward their undergraduate degree.  Students participating in the early-entry program must earn a minimum of 150 credit hours (120 discrete credit hours for the undergraduate degree and 30 discrete credit hours for the graduate degree).  Early-entry program students should carefully consider their undergraduate degree program requirements when planning their course of study.  Students in the early-entry program work in close consultation with the MBA Program Office and should refer to information in the Strome College of Business section in the graduate catalog to develop an individualized plan of study based on the required coursework.
BA or BS to MPA (Master of Public Administration) Linked Program
The linked BA/MPA or BS/MPA program provides qualified Old Dominion University undergraduate students with the opportunity to earn a master's degree in public administration while taking credits in the MPA program as an undergraduate student.  The program is designed for highly motivated students with the desire to immediately continue their education after the bachelor's degree.  The program is especially relevant to individuals seeking to work (or currently working) in the public or non-profit sectors, but is suitable for students from any undergraduate major.  Graduate courses may be taken during the fall and spring semester of the student's senior undergraduate year.  Up to 12 graduate credits can count toward both the undergraduate and graduate degree and can meet upper-level General Education requirements. After receiving the undergraduate degree, a student will continue with the MPA program, taking MPA courses until completing the required 39 credit hours. Students in the linked program must earn a minimum of 150 credit hours (120 discrete credit hours for the undergraduate degree and 30 discrete credit hours for the graduate degree).
Requirements for admission to the graduate program can be found in the School of Public Service section of the Graduate Catalog .  For additional information, please contact the School of Public Service in the Strome College of Business.
Approved linked bachelor's to doctoral degree programs are as follows:
College of Engineering and Technology
Bachelor's in Engineering or Engineering Technology to PhD in Engineering
For a select number of exceptionally well-qualified students, the college has established a linked doctoral program that enables students to be admitted directly into the PhD program upon completion of the baccalaureate degree. A select number of exceptionally well-qualified students can be admitted to the Bachelor/PhD program in their junior year while they are pursuing one of the undergraduate programs at Old Dominion University. This program encourages admitted students to work closely with faculty members and pursue a research experience. Just as in the linked Bachelor/MS program, six credit hours of graduate course work may again be counted towards the undergraduate degree and doctoral course work mentioned above for the Bachelor/PhD program. For linked bachelor's to doctoral programs, students must earn a minimum of 198 credit hours (120 discrete credit hours for the undergraduate degree and 78 discrete credit hours for the graduate degree). Students in these programs must maintain a GPA of 3.50 or better throughout their bachelor's and doctoral studies.
The student may opt to obtain the master's degree along the way to the doctorate. To obtain the master's degree, the student must utilize the six graduate credits obtained as part of their undergraduate program, use 18 credits of the graduate course work that is part of the PhD, and also write a master's thesis.
Search catalog
