Volume 82, No. 1
Catalog Issue 2023-2024 Announcements 2024-2025
Announcements contained in this publication are subject to change without notice and may not be regarded in the nature of binding obligations to the University. The University reserves the right to change any provisions or requirements. Only the Provost or designee can approve changes to the Catalog except where otherwise stated within.
When students matriculate with Old Dominion University, they come under the academic requirements of the edition of the Catalog at that time. Students may graduate under these academic requirements within a period of eight years even though subsequent Catalogs may change. Academic requirements include competency requirements, grade point average requirements, and degree program requirements. Grading practices, tuition, fees and other matters are not considered to be “academic requirements” and are subject to change at the discretion of the University.
Should new changes be to their advantage, graduate students must have permission of the graduate program and dean to select a newer catalog.  However, because academic programs are subject to requirements imposed by outside accrediting or certifying agencies, the Commonwealth of Virginia, and the United States of America, such outside requirements take precedence.
It is the policy of Old Dominion University to provide equal employment, educational and social opportunities for all persons, without regard to race, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy), national origin, age, veteran status, disability, political affiliation, sexual orientation or genetic information. Old Dominion University complies with the Family Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (as amended).
The University is an Affirmative Action Equal Opportunity employer.
Student Responsibility for Catalog Information
Students are held individually responsible for the information contained in the Undergraduate and Graduate Catalogs. Failure to read and comply with University regulations will not exempt students from whatever penalties they may incur.
Search catalog
