Math Pedagogy (MAPD)
MAPD 601 Number and Operations for PK-8 Mathematics Specialists (3 Credit Hours)
This course will meet the requirements of students in the Master of Science in Education: PK-8 Mathematics Specialist Endorsement Program, and cannot be used for credit toward any degree offered by the Department of Mathematics and Statistics. The course introduces students to a number of topics in PK-8 mathematics and related pedagogical methods. Acknowledging that learning with understanding occurs through a process of establishing a solid knowledge base upon which to build, students will explore the many and varied ways in which PK-8 students may develop number sense. The focus will be upon the development of best practices for teaching mathematics. This requires that the student have knowledge of the content, use a variety of pedagogical approaches, and be able to select and utilize appropriate manipulatives and technological resources that will foster PK-8 student understanding.
MAPD 602 Geometry and Measurement for PK-8 Mathematics Specialists (3 Credit Hours)
This course will meet the requirements of students in the Master of Science in Education: PK-8 Mathematics Specialist Endorsement Program, and cannot be used for credit toward any degree offered by the Department of Mathematics and Statistics. The course introduces students to a number of topics in PK-8 mathematics and related pedagogical methods. Following a "concrete-to-abstract" developmental learning approach, students will explore the mathematical concepts of measurement and geometry in grades PK-8. Emphasis will be placed upon measurement and geometry content knowledge as well as the pedagogical knowledge specific to mathematics teaching and learning. Students will also learn to use appropriate technology.
MAPD 603 Rational Numbers and Proportional Reasoning for PK-8 Mathematics Specialists (3 Credit Hours)
This course will meet the requirements of students in the Master of Science in Education: PK-8 Mathematics Specialist Endorsement Program, and cannot be used for credit toward any degree offered by the Department of Mathematics and Statistics. The course introduces students to a number of topics in PK-8 mathematics and related pedagogical methods. It is designed to engage participants in constructing relational understanding between theoretical development of mathematics and students' learning of mathematics in the content strands of rational numbers and proportional reasoning. Students will learn how to select and use manipulatives to connect the concrete phase of mathematical learning to the abstract, symbolic phase. Various technologies will be integrated throughout the course as tools to enhance teaching and student understanding.
MAPD 604 Probability and Statistics for PK-8 Mathematics Specialists (3 Credit Hours)
This course will meet the requirements of students in the Master of Science in Education: PK-8 Mathematics Specialist Endorsement Program, and cannot be used for credit toward any degree offered by the Department of Mathematics and Statistics. The course introduces students to a number of topics in PK-8 mathematics and related pedagogical methods. It will focus on the content and processes that support the PK-8 students' learning of probability and statistics. Instruction will cover data collection, display, and analysis as well as the development of a fundamental understanding of probabilistic structures. These structures will be related to real world problem solving and hands-on activities. Technology will be integrated throughout the course to illustrate mathematical concepts, facilitate students exploration, and to make and test hypotheses.
MAPD 605 Algebra and Functions for PK-8 Mathematics Specialists (3 Credit Hours)
This course will meet the requirements of students in the Master of Science in Education: PK-8 Mathematics Specialist Endorsement Program and cannot be used for credit toward any degree offered by the Department of Mathematics and Statistics. The course introduces students to algebraic topics in PK-12 mathematics and related pedagogical methods. Topics will focus on making connections between arithmetic and algebra and transitioning concrete arithmetic thinking to abstract algebraic thinking. Technology will be included  to enhance students' algebraic understanding and sense making.
Teaching & Learning - Curriculum & Instruction (TLCI)
TLCI 668 Internship in Curriculum and Instruction (3 Credit Hours)
Designed in consultation with advisor to provide in-depth experience in a school or community setting in which to enact a guided project on a topic of interest.
TLCI 700 Social/Emotional Aspects of Child Development (3 Credit Hours)
The emphasis of this course is on the theoretical approaches to the social/emotional development of the child that include the psychodynamic, humanistic, cognitive, behavioral, and social learning models as applied to responsive practices that promote the healthy emotional wellbeing of children.
TLCI 702 Historical and Contemporary Perspectives on Education (3 Credit Hours)
The present educational system, its social impact and future implications are viewed in historical, philosophical, and sociological perspectives. Special attention is given to technology, research, multicultural education/equity and leadership.
TLCI 703 Theoretical Perspectives in Curriculum and Instruction (3 Credit Hours)
This course introduces a range of theoretical perspectives and epistemologies in the field of curriculum and instruction.  Students will gain strategies for critical reading, scholarly writing, and identify areas for prospective inquiry.
TLCI 704 Instruction Theories and Models (3 Credit Hours)
Students will investigate a range of instructional theories and design theories in terms of learning domains and pedagogical approaches to the teaching/learning process in a variety of educational settings.  Students will utilize a systematic design process grounded in theories and research to propose/develop instruction for specific learning goals related to their own professional situations.
TLCI 705 Critical Issues in Curriculum Research (3 Credit Hours)
Explores the relationship between the historical, philosophical, and sociopolitical influence on curriculum development and evaluation.  Historical and cultural approaches to designing and implementing curricular models, curriculum reform, and understanding the politics of conceptualizing the curriculum process are highlighted. Major issues concerning educational curriculum reform are addressed and reviewed.
Prerequisites: graduate standing
TLCI 722 Curriculum Seminar in Content Areas (3 Credit Hours)
Investigates the role and nature of the curriculum for particular subject-matter specialties - e.g., math, social studies, science, English, school librarianship, reading, etc. Objectives are tailored to specific content areas.
Prerequisites: graduate standing
TLCI 726 Advanced Supervision of Reading Programs (3 Credit Hours)
Explores various models of supervision and relates them to the administration and supervision of reading programs.  Also prepares the prospective administrator/supervisor to make decisions relative to the methods and materials used to teach reading.
TLCI 727 Advanced Practicum in Reading (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed for teachers having completed the initial reading practicum.  Its focus is on the refinement and further exploration of ways to work with students experiencing reading difficulties.  Both group and individual tutoring experiences will be provided.  Ways will be explored to encourage involvement in existing educational programs and schools.
TLCI 728 Contemporary Issues in Literacy Research (3 Credit Hours)
Directed study of current topics of interest to students involved in literacy research.  Topics to include emergent literacy assessment, adult literacy programs, and other areas of investigation.  Students will be required to prepare a scholarly paper reporting results for publication.
Prerequisites: M.S.Ed. in Reading Education
TLCI 731 Instructional Technology Trends in Curriculum and Instruction (3 Credit Hours)
Examines selected issues and trends involving the use of technology in curriculum and instruction.  Students develop a critical awareness of contemporary technology, an understanding of current research regarding the successful implementation of technology in curriculum and instruction, and strategies for using new technology in the future.
TLCI 735 Participatory Research: Theory and Methods (3 Credit Hours)
This course will explore theoretical and methodological orientations towards conducting research with youth and adults. Students will focus on ethical, political, and pedagogical considerations that arise in employing participatory practices, explore methods for listening and representing participant voice, and consider implications for policy and practice
TLCI 736 Reconceptualizing Theory and Practice for Work with Children and Families (3 Credit Hours)
This graduate seminar explores post-structural theories as they relate to understandings about young children, families, and education. The focus is on intersections of race, class, gender, and age as potential constructs of how thought and action are organized and the political, historical, and economic contexts that contribute to such discourses. Students will consider theory, research and practices in readings, discussions and class assignments.
TLCI 740 Contemporary Perspectives in Early Literacy (3 Credit Hours)
This graduate seminar explores perspectives on early literacy that draw from sociocultural, postmodern, and post-structural theories. Viewing literacy as a social practice, students will explore children’s literacy with an emphasis on children’s agency and their roles as active producers of meaning. Students will be asked to critically examine early literacy research and practice to contribute to rich understandings of diverse learning needs across social, economic, and multilingual contexts.
TLCI 741 Change Issues in Curriculum and Instruction (3 Credit Hours)
Explores questions and issues related to the evolving nature of curriculum and instruction and the design of the contemporary curriculum.  Through readings and projects, students will examine new discoveries in research and technology, the effect of these and other changes on education, and the challenges of life-long learning as an influence on change.
Prerequisites: graduate standing
TLCI 788 Seminar in the Multicultural Environment (3 Credit Hours)
Explores topics related to the cultural characteristics of ethnically diverse populations and how these diverse populations and characteristics interact with social, political and economic institutions and the dominant culture to create the contemporary environment.
TLCI 795 Topics in Education (1-3 Credit Hours)
Provides opportunities for doctoral students to explore topics related to curriculum, instructional strategies, and evaluation.
TLCI 797 Independent Study (1-3 Credit Hours)
Hours to be arranged. Provides opportunities for the doctoral student to do independent research in an area of his/her particular interests and needs.
TLCI 800 Social/Emotional Aspects of Child Development (3 Credit Hours)
The emphasis of this course is on the theoretical approaches to the social/emotional development of the child that include the psychodynamic, humanistic, cognitive, behavioral, and social learning models as applied to responsive practices that promote the healthy emotional wellbeing of children.
TLCI 802 Historical and Contemporary Perspectives on Education (3 Credit Hours)
The present educational system, its social impact and future implications are viewed in historical, philosophical, and sociological perspectives. Special attention is given to technology, research, multicultural education/equity and leadership.
TLCI 803 Theoretical Perspectives in Curriculum and Instruction (3 Credit Hours)
This course introduces a range of theoretical perspectives and epistemologies in the field of curriculum and instruction.  Students will gain strategies for critical reading, scholarly writing, and identify areas for prospective inquiry.
TLCI 804 Instruction Theories and Models (3 Credit Hours)
Students will investigate a range of instructional theories and design theories in terms of learning domains and pedagogical approaches to the teaching/learning process in a variety of educational settings.  Students will utilize a systematic design process grounded in theories and research to propose/develop instruction for specific learning goals related to their own professional situations.
TLCI 805 Critical Issues in Curriculum Research (3 Credit Hours)
Explores the relationship between the historical, philosophical, and sociopolitical influence on curriculum development and evaluation.  Historical and cultural approaches to designing and implementing curricular models, curriculum reform, and understanding the politics of conceptualizing the curriculum process are highlighted. Major issues concerning educational curriculum reform are addressed and reviewed.
Prerequisites: graduate standing
TLCI 808 Critical Sociocultural Theories of Learning (3 Credit Hours)
This course will establish a theoretical lens by which students will understand learning as socially and culturally constituted and apply this foundation to literacy acquisition and learning.
Prerequisites: Admission to the Curriculum and Instruction doctoral program
TLCI 809 Youth Ideology, Culture and Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course will draw on sociocultural perspectives to provide an empirical, historical, and theoretical examination of issues that impact youth in societies characterized by structural inequalities. These inequalities may be based on class, race, ethnicity, and sexual/gendered relations of dominance and subordination. Exploration through various texts from several academic disciplines will enable course participants to analyze the intersection of education, social change, and youth development in the contexts of self-discovery, identity, culture, belonging, citizenship, participation, and activism.
TLCI 814 Qualitative Research Design in Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course concentrates on the theoretical underpinnings of qualitative research, methodology and methods including identification of ways to collect and analyze qualitative data; examination of ethical issues; development of proposals; and writing up studies.
TLCI 815 Advanced Qualitative Research (3 Credit Hours)
This advanced qualitative course is an introduction to emerging research approaches and alternative data collection methods and analyses in education, counseling and other related disciplines. Content addressed includes visual and audio research, historical movements in qualitative research, critical theory, feminism, queer theory, ethnomethodology, autoethnography, content analysis, and mixed methods research.
Prerequisites: TLCI 814
TLCI 828 Contemporary Issues in Literacy Research (3 Credit Hours)
Directed study of current topics of interest to students involved in literacy research.  Topics to include emergent literacy assessment, adult literacy programs, and other areas of investigation.  Students will be required to prepare a scholarly paper reporting results for publication.
Prerequisites: M.S.Ed. in Reading Education
TLCI 831 Instructional Technology Trends in Curriculum and Instruction (3 Credit Hours)
Examines selected issues and trends involving the use of technology in curriculum and instruction.  Students develop a critical awareness of contemporary technology, an understanding of current research regarding the successful implementation of technology in curriculum and instruction, and strategies for using new technology in the future.
TLCI 835 Participatory Research: Theory and Methods (3 Credit Hours)
This course will explore theoretical and methodological orientations towards conducting research with youth and adults. Students will focus on ethical, political, and pedagogical considerations that arise in employing participatory practices, explore methods for listening and representing participant voice, and consider implications for policy and practice
TLCI 836 Reconceptualizing Theory and Practice for Work with Children and Families (3 Credit Hours)
This graduate seminar explores post-structural theories as they relate to understandings about young children, families, and education. The focus is on intersections of race, class, gender, and age as potential constructs of how thought and action are organized and the political, historical, and economic contexts that contribute to such discourses. Students will consider theory, research and practices in readings, discussions and class assignments.
TLCI 840 Contemporary Perspectives in Early Literacy (3 Credit Hours)
This graduate seminar explores perspectives on early literacy that draw from sociocultural, postmodern, and post-structural theories. Viewing literacy as a social practice, students will explore children’s literacy with an emphasis on children’s agency and their roles as active producers of meaning. Students will be asked to critically examine early literacy research and practice to contribute to rich understandings of diverse learning needs across social, economic, and multilingual contexts.
Pre- or corequisite: TLCI 740
TLCI 845 Concepts and Contexts in School Librarianship (3 Credit Hours)
Will introduce candidates to the broad landscape of school librarianship and its relationship to the greater library and information profession. Includes a critical examination of benchmarks and key concepts tied to literacies, information science, and technical innovation.
TLCI 861 Ethnographic Research and Narrative & Historical Research Methods and Design (3 Credit Hours)
In this advanced qualitative research course, students will focus on ethnographic methods such as ethnography, ethnomethodology, and autoethnomethodology. Students will also learn about participatory research methods. The course will examine narrative and historical research approaches including biography and autobiography.
Prerequisites: TLCI 815
TLCI 862 Critical and Indigenous Research Methods and Design (3 Credit Hours)
In this advanced qualitative methods course, students will explore readings related to critical and indigenous research, methodologies and paradigms as well as engage in activities to decolonize traditional research approaches with specific groups. This course refers to indigenous peoples as individuals and groups belonging to developing or underdeveloped regions nationally or internationally.
Prerequisites: TLCI 815
TLCI 863 Emerging Qualitative Research Methods (3 Credit Hours)
This advanced qualitative research course examines emerging and lesser known qualitative research methods such as self-study, portraiture, arts-based research, photovoice, rhizomatic analysis and critical policy analysis.
Prerequisites: TLCI 815
TLCI 864 Case Study, Grounded Theory, & Phenomenological Research Methods & Design (3 Credit Hours)
This advanced qualitative research course examines the intricacies of case study methods. It also delves into the various qualitative research methods surrounding experience and theory formation such as Grounded Theory, Phenomenology, Heuristic Inquiry and Consensual Qualitative Research.
Prerequisites: TLCI 815
TLCI 865 Independent Qualitative Research (3 Credit Hours)
This capstone course involves the student developing and completing an original qualitative research project independent from the dissertation.
Prerequisites: TLCI 815
TLCI 868 Internship: Early Childhood (3 Credit Hours)
Independent research study allows the student to explore a topic of interest under the close supervision of a faculty member. The coursework may include directed readings, applied independent investigations - collaboration with a faculty member with a research project or carrying out an independent research project - and other activities deemed appropriate including grant proposal writing or programmatic evaluation work. Regardless of the nature of the experience, the work must culminate in a formal paper suitable for inclusion in a published research manuscript.
TLCI 875 Research and Practice in Teacher Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides experiences that examine the theoretical and practical foundations of research and practice in teacher education. The course explores various facets of field- and university-based teacher education practices, which include but are not limited to school-university partnerships, mentor teaching and supervision of teacher candidates, and teaching education coursework. Students also consider the development of teacher educator identity, the benefits of collaborative inquiry, and research methods used to investigate teacher education learning and practice.
TLCI 876 Grant Writing (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides students with an applied introduction to proposal and grant writing. Doctoral students who successfully complete the course will be prepared to seek external funding to support their continuing graduate studies and to support their future success as academics.
TLCI 888 Seminar in the Multicultural Environment (3 Credit Hours)
Explores topics related to the cultural characteristics of ethnically diverse populations and how these diverse populations and characteristics interact with social, political and economic institutions and the dominant culture to create the contemporary environment.
TLCI 890 Seminar in Academic Writing (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides a guide through the process of academic writing, following practices for manuscript publication and dissertation writing. Peer feedback and individualized writing are hallmarks of the course. This course provides students with the knowledge and skills to become better academic writers through practice of successful strategies and habits related to the writing process as well as examinations of exemplars.
TLCI 895 Topics in Education (1-3 Credit Hours)
Provides opportunities for doctoral students to explore topics related to curriculum, instructional strategies, and evaluation.
TLCI 897 Independent Study (1-3 Credit Hours)
Hours to be arranged. Provides opportunities for the doctoral student to do independent research in an area of his/her particular interests and needs.
TLCI 899 Dissertation (1-12 Credit Hours)
Preparation of dissertation.
Prerequisites: graduate standing, successful completion of candidacy exam and permission of the instructor
TLCI 999 Doctoral Graduate Credit (1 Credit Hour)
This course is a pass/fail course doctoral students may take to maintain active status after successfully passing the candidacy examination.  All doctoral students are required to be registered for at least one graduate credit hour every semester until their graduation.
Teaching and Learning - Education (TLED)
TLED 532 Developing Instructional Strategies PreK-6: Language Arts (3 Credit Hours)
Following a theory into practice philosophy, students explore, develop, and use instructional strategies, materials, technologies, and activities to promote children's development of attitudes, behaviors, and concepts in language arts in grades PreK-6 in support of NCTE national instructional standards and the Virginia Standards of Learning.
Prerequisites: a grade of C or higher in TLED 617 and TLED 468 / TLED 568
TLED 535 Developing Instructional Strategies PreK-6: Social Studies (3 Credit Hours)
Following a theory into practice philosophy, students explore, develop, and use instructional strategies, materials, technologies, and activities to promote children's development of attitudes, behaviors, and concepts in social studies in grades PreK-6 in support of NCSS national instructional standards and the Virginia Standards of Learning.
Prerequisites: TLED 617
TLED 551 Developing Instructional Strategies for Teaching in the Middle/High School: English (3 Credit Hours)
Following a theory/research-into-practice philosophy, students explore, develop, and use instructional strategies, materials, technologies, and activities to promote the development of attitudes, behaviors, and concepts in English, grades 6-12, informed by national instructional standards and the Virginia Standards of Learning; 35 hours of teaching practicum required.
Prerequisites: TLED 608 , TLED 617 , SPED 613 , a criminal background check, acceptance into teacher education, no grade less than C- in content area and professional education core, minimum major and overall GPA of at least 3.0
Corequisites: TLED 583
TLED 552 Developing Instructional Strategies for Teaching in Middle/High School: Math and Science (3 Credit Hours)
This science and mathematics course will provide methods for teaching diverse learners through culturally sustaining pedagogy, inquiry-oriented, and problem solving strategies using technology and engineering design principles. Students in this course take a required practicum (35 hours) in a secondary science or mathematics classroom to complete assigned content-focused activities.
Corequisites: TLED 583
TLED 555 Developing Instructional Strategies for Teaching in the Middle/High School: Social Studies (3 Credit Hours)
Following a theory/research-into-practice philosophy, students explore, develop, and use instructional strategies, materials, technologies, and activities to promote the development of attitudes, behaviors, and concepts in social studies, grades 6-12, informed by national instructional standards and the Virginia Standards of Learning; 35 hours of teaching practicum required.
Prerequisites: TLED 608 , TLED 617 , SPED 613 , a criminal background check, acceptance into teacher education, no grade less than C- in content area and professional education core, minimum major and overall GPA of at least 3.0
Corequisites: TLED 583
TLED 568 Language Acquisition and Reading for Students with Diverse Learning Needs (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides an overview of normal language development and language disorders which impact the acquisition of language based curriculum skills such as listening, speaking, reading, and written expression.  Emphasis is on instructional techniques to assist students with diverse learning needs to achieve reading and comprehension skills.  Effective reading strategies and curricula for individuals with disabilities will also be reviewed.
TLED 574 Foundations and Contemporary Issues in Early Childhood Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course addresses current issues related to children and families in early childhood settings.  Contemporary research on pedagogical and formative assessment practices related to the education of young children will be discussed through critical exploration. This course will also have an associated 40 hour practicum (20 hours in an infant or toddler classroom and 20 hours in a preschool age classroom).
TLED 578 Integrating Instruction Across the Curriculum PreK-6 (3 Credit Hours)
Following a theory into practice philosophy and building on the instructional strategies for specific disciplines, students explore, develop, and use advanced instructional materials, technologies, and activities to promote interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary instruction across the curriculum in grades PreK-6 in support of national standards and the Virginia Standards of Learning. The field experience component (40 hours) includes participation in prek-3 and 4th-6th grade classrooms in an accredited public or non-public school, per program requirement.
Prerequisites: TLED 301 or TLED 290, passing scores on PRAXIS Core or met equivalent scores as established by VA Board of Education, a criminal background check, acceptance into teacher education, no grade less than C in content area and professional education core, minimum major overall GPA of at least 3.0 and at least two of the following: TLED 532 , TLED 535 , STEM 533 , and STEM 534
TLED 579 Classroom Management and Practice PreK-3; PreK-6 (3 Credit Hours)
Course prepares prospective PreK-3 and PreK-6 teachers to provide instruction and management addressing the intellectual, physical, emotional and social needs of PreK-6 learners founded in empirically based practice.  The field based component (70 hours) includes participation in PreK-3 and 4th-6th grade classrooms in an accredited public or non-public school.  Students in the Prek-3 program are required to complete 35 hours in the Children's Learning and Research Center. Attendance at seminars and debriefing sessions is required.
Prerequisites: TLED 301 , passing scores on Praxis Core or met equivalent scores as established by VA Board of Education, a criminal background check, acceptance into teacher education, no grade less than C in content area and professional education core, minimum major and overall GPA of at least 2.8 and at least two of the following courses: TLED 432 or TLED 532 , TLED 435 or TLED 535 , TLED 478 or TLED 578 , STEM 433 or STEM 533 , STEM 434 or STEM 534
TLED 580 Multicultural Young Adult Literature in Schools (3 Credit Hours)
This course will explore the reading and teaching of diverse young adult literature. Topics addressed include ideas about adolescents and their learning practices; characteristics of young adult literature and literary criticism; analysis of texts from a range of young adult genres; methods for teaching young adult literature; and lesson and unit design.
TLED 583 Seminar in Teacher Education (1 Credit Hour)
This course explores issues, problems, concerns, and processes related to teaching and entering the profession of teaching.  Passing score on Elementary Education Multiple Subjects Assessment in licensure content area, passing scores on the Virginia Communication and Literacy Assessment (VCLA), and where appropriate passing scores on Reading for Virginia Educators are required to pass this course.
Prerequisites: admitted to approved teacher education program
TLED 586 Student Teaching for Special Endorsement (3-6 Credit Hours)
Internship in school.  Available for pass/fail grading only.
Prerequisites: Collegiate Professional Certificate and/or completion of an approved program in teacher education, passing scores on the Praxis Core examination or equivalent SAT or ACT scores as established by VA Board of Education, passing scores on the appropriate Praxis II content examination,  passing score on the Virginia Communication and Literacy Assessment, departmental approval, permission of the director of teacher education services, meet grade requirement in the specific content area and professional education core, minimum major and overall GPA of at least 3.0, and a criminal background check
TLED 595 Topics in Education (1-4 Credit Hours)
Explores contemporary problems and trends in education.  Emphasis is placed upon topics related to curriculum, instructional strategies, and evaluation.
Prerequisites: graduate standing
TLED 596 Topics in Education (1-3 Credit Hours)
Cannot be applied to a Master of Science in Education degree in the Department of Teaching and Learning.  Explores contemporary problems and trends in education.  Emphasis is placed upon topics related to curriculum, instructional strategies, and evaluation.
Prerequisites: graduate standing
TLED 597 Independent Study (1-3 Credit Hours)
Hours to be arranged. Allows the student to engage in independent study of issues and trends in education. Emphasis is placed upon topics related to curriculum, instructional strategies, and evaluation.
Prerequisites: graduate standing
TLED 608 Foundations of Education and Instructional Assessment (3 Credit Hours)
Provides students with an understanding of historical, philosophical, economic, and sociological issues in American education, their effect on student achievement, and the impact of social change on existing institutions.  Includes the development of instruction based on assessment data including the use, construction, interpretation, and analysis of valid assessments.  A 30-hour observation/participation experience is required in an appropriate prek-6, 6-8, or 6-12 grade level.
Prerequisites: graduate standing
TLED 614 Arts in Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide students with a range of approaches for thinking about the arts in education, with specific emphasis on the visual arts. It assumes that life in the 21st century calls for competencies that are critical, flexible, collaborative, and relational and forwards artistic thinking as complementary to this need. In addition to course readings that explore cognitive, developmental, cultural, and social dimensions of art and learning, students will be asked to participate in activities associated with making and viewing art, as well as consider implications for designing K-12 curriculum.
TLED 615 Teaching in the Middle School (4 Credit Hours)
Focusing on middle school teaching, this course examines the organization, curriculum, instructional strategies, classroom management techniques, and teaching methods for working with young adolescents.  Also covered are middle school guidance, exploratories, scheduling, and parent-school relations.  A 30-hour practicum in a middle school is required.
Prerequisites: Graduate standing
TLED 617 Digital Age Teaching and Learning (3 Credit Hours)
In this class, contemporary digital tools and Internet resources are used to develop instructional plans and contribute to teaching techniques. The course is designed with three components: effectively integrating technology into the delivery of the curriculum, evidence-based good teaching practices utilizing technology that spans across grades and subject levels, and the technologies that support those practices. Upon completion of this course students should be able to pass, or apply for exemption from their school district's TSIP exam.
TLED 618 Assessment and Evaluation in PK-12 Schools (3 Credit Hours)
This course will prepare teachers for the appropriate use of formative and summative assessment and evaluation principles in support of students' learning and development. Students will learn to analyze assessment data to evaluate reliability and validity, interpret student performance, and make instructional decisions.
TLED 620 Education and Public Policy (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide students with an understanding of the political nature of education and its implications for teaching and learning. Students will be expected to critically consider the development and implementation of formal policies designed to improve education in U.S. schools. To do so, students will consider historical and contemporary trends in educational theory and research to situate current policies and practices in our nation’s schools, with a clear focus on understanding the range and scope of policy dilemmas in the public pre-K–12 sector of education.
TLED 621 Foundations and History of Education (3 Credit Hours)
This seminar explores foundational ideas of democratic education. While focusing on the contexts and conditions of contemporary education, it traces the roots of educational theory and philosophy from the formation of the common school to the policy reforms of the 21st century. This look at the present through the past provides insight into the interactions between social, economic, political, ideological, and environmental factors and its impact on the purposes of education, school curriculum and ideas of measurement and evaluation. Students will be expected to consider the implications of/for democratic education, historically and presently, as it relates to issues of race, class, gender, and multiculturalism.
TLED 623 Introduction to the Contemporary Student (3 Credit Hours)
The course is designed to explore contemporary youth as learners with multiple dimensions of identity, including cultural and linguistic diversity. Topics explored include physical, social, emotional, language and conceptual development; digital and print production and consumption; and the selection, development, and use of appropriate curricula, methodologies, and materials for the contemporary student. The course includes a practicum experience (20 hours) as well.
TLED 626 Teaching Language, Culture, and Society in Elementary Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course will provide methods for teaching diverse learners through culturally sustaining pedagogy, effective methods for designing instructional strategies and materials for teaching social studies and language arts in the elementary grades. Students in this course take a corequisite practicum (40 hours) in elementary classrooms to complete assigned activities designed to further practical development.
TLED 627 Classroom Management, Discipline, and Practice (3 Credit Hours)
This course prepares prospective PreK-3 and PreK-6 teachers to provide instruction and management addressing the intellectual, physical, emotional and social needs of PreK-6 learners founded in empirically based practice. The field based component (40 hours) includes participation in PreK-3 and 4th-6th grade classrooms in an accredited public or non-public school setting.
TLED 628 Middle Level Philosophy, School Organization and the Young Adolescent (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on theories and principles of adolescent development and learning in family, school, and community contexts.  Candidates examine adolescents from biological, psychological, cognitive, and social perspectives. This includes how adolescents learn and what motivates them to learn, and how schools contribute to adolescents’ growth by teaching in ways that “fit” their developmental and cultural needs.
TLED 630 Develop and Enhancing Literacy with Culturally and Linguistical Diverse Learner Across Content Areas (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on the development and implementation of strategies that will accommodate how language and cultural differences affect communication and learning; knowledge of the impact of language-based curriculum skills such as listening, speaking, reading, and writing; instructional techniques needed to assist individuals identified as culturally, linguistically, and academically diverse in achieving reading and comprehension skills; comprehension strategies; and an understanding of reading across the disciplines.
TLED 631 Classroom Based Inquiry (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to integrate the research on effective teaching and learning with theory and practice through the lens of democratic education. As an introductory survey course, the focus will be on developing the competencies related to the critical consumption of research literature in order to further the teacher candidates’ understanding of the physical, social, emotional, speech and language and intellectual development of children.
TLED 632 Multicultural Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course will explore critical multicultural education situated within culturally sustaining pedagogical practices to explore issues related to race, ethnicity, class, gender, sexuality, religion, power, and language use; however, this course is not about a celebration of difference, but is designed to enable students to investigate how socially constructed categories such as social class, race, gender, sexual orientation, and disability are used to privilege some and marginalize others.
TLED 633 Middle Level Instruction and Assessment (3 Credit Hours)
This course will provide opportunities to examine the theoretical and practical applications of data-driven decision making, assessments, and curriculum planning for middle level educators. Students will consider adolescent development as well as student behaviors to analyze standards and effectively plan instruction and assessment. Further, students will apply principles of culturally sustaining pedagogy to middle school instruction and assessment planning and practices.
TLED 636 Problems in Education (3 Credit Hours)
Provides practice in the use of quantitative or qualitative techniques, including analytical processes, in solving problems in education. Pass/Fail grading only.
Prerequisites: FOUN 612
TLED 638 Researching Teaching in Elementary and Secondary Grades (3 Credit Hours)
In this course, students will learn the processes of reflective inquiry and conduct informal inquiries of the teaching and learning dynamic in preK-12 school settings. Activities include explorations of professional biography school and classroom culture and practice, student demographics, curriculum, and other critical components of teaching and learning.
Prerequisites: graduate standing
TLED 639 Seminar in Education (3 Credit Hours)
Hours to be arranged.  Explores in depth a variety of current topics, trends and concerns in K-12 education.
Prerequisites: 15 graduate hours in education, including all core courses
TLED 640 The Management of Learning and Instruction (3 Credit Hours)
This course explores classroom and behavior management techniques including teacher-student relationships, rules and procedures, and disciplinary interventions. Emphasis is placed on building a diverse repertoire of approaches to classroom management at the individual and classroom level. Candidates will develop a classroom management plan that includes techniques for engaging families.
TLED 643 Introduction to the Contemporary Student (3 Credit Hours)
The course is designed to be an exploration of contemporary youth as learners situated in/by many identities, including those aspects of self related to cultural and linguistic diversity. Among the subjects to be explored are: physical, social, emotional, language and conceptual development; digital and print production and consumption; and the selection, development, and use of appropriate curricula, methodologies, and materials for the contemporary student.
TLED 646 Classroom Based Inquiry (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to integrate the research on effective teaching and learning with theory and practice through the lens of democratic education. As an introductory survey course, the focus will be on developing the competencies related to the critical consumption of research literature in order to further the candidates’ understanding of the physical, social, emotional, speech and language and intellectual development of children. Diverse approaches based upon culturally responsive behavioral, cognitive, affective, social, and ecological theory and practice will be utilized in guiding the learning experience of the course.
TLED 647 Education and Public Policy (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to provide students with an understanding of the political nature of education and its implications for teaching and learning. Students will be expected to critically consider the development and implementation of formal policies designed to improve education in US schools. To do so, students will consider historical and contemporary trends in educational theory and research to situate current policies and practices in our nation’s schools, with a clear focus on understanding the range and scope of policy dilemmas in the public pre-K–12 sector of education.
TLED 650 Mathematics Specialists as Teacher Leaders (3 Credit Hours)
The critical characteristics and responsibilities of Mathematics Specialists as teacher leaders will be explored. Structuring professional learning for classroom teachers through peer coaching, mentoring, observations, conferencing and relational group learning will be explored for developing teacher leadership capacity.
TLED 651 Teaching Mathematics for All Using Culturally Responsive Approaches (3 Credit Hours)
Adapting the mathematics teaching and learning practices to accommodate diverse populations will be explored. The essential knowledge and understanding needed by mathematics specialists to support classroom teachers to effectively utilize culturally responsive pedagogies to differentiate instruction and support all learners.
TLED 653 Participatory Action Research for Mathematics Specialists (3 Credit Hours)
Participatory Action Research is introduced to conduct community, school, or classroom-based research for improving mathematics learning and teaching.
TLED 654 Practicum for Mathematics Specialists (3 Credit Hours)
This course requires candidates to complete a 150-hour practicum that is designed to provide opportunities and learning experiences to refine and reinforce mathematical and leadership skills, understandings, and dispositions for optimal performance as a Mathematics Specialist.
Pre- or corequisite: TLED 650
TLED 658 Mathematical Assessment for Data Driven Decisions (3 Credit Hours)
Selected key differences between assessment for and of learning will be examined. Students will design quality assessment systems that provide numerical and descriptive information about student learning and explore ways to use these data to drive instructional decisions for improved learning.
TLED 666 Internship/Student Teaching and Seminar (9 Credit Hours)
Five days per week for 14 weeks.  Available for pass/fail grading only.   Provides practice in teaching in grades 6-8 and in analyzing teaching approaches and behaviors.  Examines instructional problems and concerns.
Prerequisites: completion of an approved program in teacher education, 6-8, passing scores on PRAXIS I or equivalent SAT or ACT scores as established by VA State Board of Education, passing scores on the appropriate PRAXIS II content examination, departmental approval, permission of the director of teacher education services, no grade less than  C- in content area and professional education core, minimum major and overall GPA of at least 2.75
TLED 667 Internship/Student Teaching and Seminar in PreK-3 (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides practice in teaching in grades PK-3 and in analyzing teaching approaches and behaviors. It examines instructional problems and concerns. Each semester the candidate must maintain continuance and a 3.0 GPA to enroll in each teacher candidate internship semester for a total of 9 semester credit hours. Available for pass/fail grading only.
Prerequisites: admission to the approved teacher education program; completion of all undergraduate content courses, professional education courses, and all Virginia Department of Education licensure assessments for admission into the ECE graduate program; no grade less than C in content area and professional education core; minimum major and overall GPA of at least 2.8; and permission of the department
TLED 668 Internship/Student Teaching and Seminar (9 Credit Hours)
Five days per week for 14 weeks.  Available for pass/fail grading only.   Provides practice in teaching in grades PK-6 and in analyzing teaching approaches and behaviors. Examines instructional problems and concerns.
Prerequisites: completion of an approved program in teacher education PreK-6, passing scores on PRAXIS I or equivalent SAT or ACT scores as established by VA State Board of Education, passing scores on the appropriate PRAXIS II content examination, departmental approval, permission of the director of teacher education services, no grade less than C- in content area and professional education core, minimum major and overall GPA of at least 2.75
TLED 669 Internship/Student Teaching and Seminar (3-9 Credit Hours)
Five days per week for 6-14 weeks.  Available for pass/fail grading only.  Provides practice in teaching and in analyzing teaching approaches and behaviors. Examines instructional problems and concerns.
Prerequisites: Completion of an approved program in teacher education, passing scores on the appropriate licensure assessments, departmental approval, permission of the director of teacher education services, no grade less than C- in content area and professional education core, minimum major and overall GPA of a least 2.75, GPA of 3.0 required for graduate programs
TLED 671 Practitioner Inquiry in Elementary and Secondary Grades (3 Credit Hours)
In this course, students will explore research methods and forms of data collection and analysis associated with practitioner inquiry, including self-study and action research. Students will be required to design a research proposal using practitioner inquiry research methods.
TLED 672 Integrating Children’s Lit, Language Arts & Social Studies Across Early Child Curriculum (3 Credit Hours)
This course emphasizes the development of K-6 students’ multiple and multimodal literacies and the promotion of active literacy and social studies explorations within the early and elementary classroom and aligned with the Virginia Standards of Learning. The course will focus on the five domains of social studies education and children’s holistic literacy development. Multiple perspectives and approaches to planning, teaching, and assessing literacy and social studies in the early and elementary classroom are explored and practiced. This course includes a 35-hour practicum experience in an early or elementary classroom.
TLED 673 Integrating Science and Mathematics Across the Early Childhood and Elementary Curriculum (3 Credit Hours)
This course emphasizes the development of young children’s inquiry and problem-solving skills and content learning through inquiry-based science and problem-based mathematics explorations. Multiple perspectives and approaches to planning, teaching, and assessing science and mathematics in the early childhood and elementary grades classroom are explored and practiced. This course includes a 35-hour practicum experience in an early or elementary classroom.
TLED 676 Teaching Diverse Learners in Elementary & Secondary Schools (3 Credit Hours)
The course will emphasize evidence-based instructional practices and strategies to teach students with diverse interests, abilities, and prior knowledge. This course examines the impact of students' varied home support mechanisms and resources on the academic skills among students in contemporary schools. Additionally, the course will focus on instructional strategies that are varied and accessible from many perspectives; emphasis is given to methods of instruction that have evidence to support resulting improved student outcomes.
TLED 677 Learning and Development Across Historical and Contemporary Educational Environments (3 Credit Hours)
This course explores foundational ideas of democratic education in light of contemporary understandings of how children and youth construct knowledge. While focusing on the contexts and conditions of contemporary education, it traces the roots of educational theory and philosophy from the formation of the common school to the policy reforms of the 21st century. This understanding is coupled with the major theories of children's learning and development as well as all aspects of their physical, social, emotional, and intellectual development from birth through adolescence. The course requires that students learn the concepts and terminology associated with each theory and be able to use them in analyzing, interpreting, promoting, and evaluating children's growth and learning in the classroom.
TLED 679 Advanced Classroom Management and Practicum in PreK-6 (3 Credit Hours)
This course will examine advanced methods for educators to use in order to make their classroom teaching and management more efficient and effective.  This will include supervised involvement of the student in a practicum setting where the student, instructor and classroom teacher work together closely to develop knowledge and gain expertise in teaching children in a positive and effective learning environment. A weekly seminar is required.
TLED 680 Teacher Candidate Internship – MAT Program (5 Credit Hours)
Field-based internship. Provides practice in teaching and in analyzing teaching approaches and behaviors. Examines instructional problems and concerns.  This experience is a crucial part of a teacher candidate’s preparation to becoming a Professional Educator.
Prerequisites: Completion of an approved program in teacher education, passing scores on the appropriate licensure assessments, departmental approval, permission of the director of teacher education services, no grade less than C- in content area and professional education core, minimum major and overall GPA of a least 2.75
TLED 681 Critical Pedagogy in Early Childhood (3 Credit Hours)
Building from early childhood traditions that recognize the importance of children’s participation in learning, students will employ critical perspectives of early childhood to develop awareness of paradigmatic changes in thinking about young children by considering the heterogeneous nature of childhood. Students will examine and critically reflect on models of the learner and curriculum contexts in early education through an inter-disciplinary focus that views childhood as a complex web of interdependence. This course will provide students with an understanding of how cultural texts and representation practices shape curricular and pedagogical decisions as well as resources for planning curriculum and instruction from constructivist paradigms.
Prerequisites: Departmental approval required
TLED 687 Pedagogy Principles & Models of Instruction (3 Credit Hours)
Students will investigate and analyze a range of pedagogical approaches from the objectivist, constructivist and social family of learning models including major psychological and philosophical approaches. Students will assess the syntax of instructional models that can be applied across a variety of content areas and demonstrate their understanding of various teaching models through the development of lesson plans in their content area.
TLED 690 The Child and the Family (3 Credit Hours)
This course will examine children in the context of the families in which they live.  Family systems theory provides the basis for study, and students do an in-depth examination of their own families of origin.  The stages of the family life cycle are taught; principles of healthy family functioning are emphasized to promote healthy growth for children.
TLED 695 Topics in Education (1-3 Credit Hours)
Provides opportunities for graduate students to explore current topics, trends and issues related to curriculum, instructional strategies, and evaluation.
Prerequisites: Graduate standing
TLED 697 Independent Study (1-4 Credit Hours)
Hours to be arranged. Provides opportunities for the master's student to do independent research in an area of his/her particular interests and needs.
Prerequisites: graduate standing
TLED 699 Thesis (3-6 Credit Hours)
Master’s-level research and thesis in topics related to curriculum, instructional strategies, and evaluation in educational settings.
Prerequisites: graduate standing and permission of the instructor
TLED 701 Teacher as Leader (3 Credit Hours)
This course prepares elementary and secondary teachers to become facilitators of change in schools and communities. They will explore various leader roles in the K-12 context, including exemplary and critically minded practitioner, curriculum decision-maker, researcher, advocate, and facilitator of job-embedded professional development
TLED 702 Coaching and Mentoring (3 Credit Hours)
This course prepares teachers to be effective coaches of teacher candidates and inservice teachers in K-12 settings. They will develop understandings of student-centered, evidence-based models of coaching and mentoring, and acquire specific knowledge and skills of effective coaching and mentoring.
TLED 703 Curriculum Leadership (3 Credit Hours)
This course prepares teachers to enact dynamic curriculum leadership. They will explore curriculum as a design for learning, a set of school experiences based on goals and values, that take into account diverse learners and other stakeholders, including families and communities.
TLED 704 Collaboration and Advocacy (3 Credit Hours)
The purpose of this course is to develop teacher leaders’ skills in facilitation, collaboration, and advocacy at the school, division, and community levels. Emphasis is placed on engaging with diverse stakeholders through culturally responsive means to foster student academic achievement.
TLED 724 Curriculum Development Principles and Practices in Elementary Schools (3 Credit Hours)
This course will engage students in the on-going debates about the development and shaping of curricula with an emphasis on how these forces play out in elementary schools. The course requires students to investigate the scope and components of curriculum planning, development, and delivery. Students are first expected to develop an understanding of the many forms of dynamic tension at play in curriculum debates, and, subsequently, they are required to develop an understanding of specific ways in which teachers and curriculum leaders can shape the instructional process, and select and use curriculum materials.
TLED 725 Curriculum Development Principles and Practices in Secondary Schools (3 Credit Hours)
This course will engage students in the on-going debates about the development and shaping of curricula with an emphasis on how these forces play out in secondary schools. The course requires students to investigate the scope and components of curriculum planning, development, and delivery. Students are first expected to develop an understanding of the many forms of dynamic tension at play in curriculum debates, and, subsequently, they are required to develop an understanding of specific ways in which teachers and curriculum leaders can shape the instructional process, and select and use curriculum materials.
TLED 734 Problems of Teaching in the Elementary Grades (3 Credit Hours)
This course addresses the prevailing issues and trends affecting elementary education in the United States. An understanding of contemporary issues that influence education will assist students in utilizing a critical lens to address those issues in their classrooms. This course provides an opportunity to examine and explore significant theorists, researchers and readings considered foundational as well as contemporary related to sociocultural and political issues within the field of elementary education.
TLED 735 Problems of Teaching in the Secondary Grades (3 Credit Hours)
This course addresses the prevailing issues and trends affecting secondary education in the United States. An understanding of contemporary issues that influence education will assist students in utilizing a critical lens to address those issues in their classrooms. This course provides an opportunity to examine and explore significant theorists, researchers and readings considered foundational as well as contemporary related to sociocultural and political issues within the field of secondary education.
TLED 744 Diversity and Equity in Elementary Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on factors of diversity and social justice that effect decisions elementary teachers must make regarding design and implementation of curriculum, teaching strategies, and materials in order to provide equity and excellence for all learners in the elementary grades.
TLED 745 Diversity and Equity in Secondary Education (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on factors of diversity and social justice that effect decisions secondary teachers must make regarding design and implementation of curriculum, teaching strategies, and materials in order to provide equity and excellence for all learners in the secondary grades.
TLED 775 English Language Learners in the PK-12 Classroom (3 Credit Hours)
The course is designed to infuse the teachers' competencies related to meeting the instructional needs of English language learners. The course will explore the language, culture, instruction, assessment, and professionalism in order to understand and teach linguistically diverse learners effectively.
TLED 998 Master’s Graduate Credit (1 Credit Hour)
This course is a pass/fail course for master's students in their final semester. It may be taken to fulfill the registration requirement necessary for graduation.  All master's students are required to be registered for at least one graduate credit hour in the semester of their graduation.
Search catalog
