Graduate Courses
PSYC 197 Undergraduate Research Experience in Psychology (0 Credit Hours)
Student participation in a supervised, undergraduate research experience for which credit will not apply to the degree.  Experience must be related to the student's major, minor or career area of interest.
Prerequisites: permission of the instructor
PSYC 201S Introduction to Psychology (3 Credit Hours)
Introduction to the scientific study of psychology, including the methods used to gather and interpret data.  The student is introduced to fundamental terms, theories, and concepts dealing with the biological bases of behavior; learning; perception; cognition and intelligence; personality; psychological disorders; human development; and social processes.  An emphasis is placed on application of concepts and critical thinking.
PSYC 203S Lifespan Development (3 Credit Hours)
A broad contemporary view of the processes of development.  The influences of biological and environmental factors in the development of personality and cognitive functioning are explored.
PSYC 300 Careers in Psychology (3 Credit Hours)
Exploration of available careers in psychology with a bachelor’s degree as well as career options for individuals after graduate school (e.g., master’s degree, PhD, PsyD, etc.). All assignments will be aimed at helping students learn more about available opportunities and develop skills needed to find a job and/or get into graduate school. This course is recommended during the sophomore or junior year.
Prerequisites: Open to declared PSYC majors only, or with instructor approval; completion of PSYC 201S with a C (2.0) or higher
PSYC 303 Industrial/Organizational Psychology (3 Credit Hours)
An application of psychological principles and research to human behavior in work settings. Among the topics covered are personnel selection, training, and evaluation; employee motivation and job satisfaction; and organizational leadership and theory.
Prerequisites: Completion of PSYC 201S with a grade of C (2.0) or higher
PSYC 304 Social Psychology (3 Credit Hours)
The behavior of the individual as affected by other people and groups. Interpersonal attraction, attitude change, group dynamics, and the application of psychology to social problems are among the topics covered.
Prerequisites: Completion of PSYC 201S with a grade of C (2.0) or higher
PSYC 305 Introduction to Clinical Psychology (3 Credit Hours)
This course surveys the evolution and future of clinical psychology, covering research, assessment and intervention, and subspecialities.
Prerequisites: Completion of PSYC 201S with a grade of C (2.0) or higher
PSYC 306 Health Psychology (3 Credit Hours)
Course examines how psychological states (e.g., anxiety, stress) influence physical health. The course also examines how physical states (e.g., illness, pain, injury) influence psychological health. Topics include the impact of stress on health and proneness to illness; coping with illness, injury and trauma; and the role of health-enhancing behaviors in maintaining physical health.
Prerequisites: Completion of PSYC 201S with a grade of C (2.0) or higher or permission of the instructor
PSYC 307 Institutionalization of Human-Centered Computing (3 Credit Hours)
This course introduces students to the fundamental principles of human-computer interaction. Emphasis is placed on leadership knowledge needed to implement human-centered design practices into an organization's culture.
Prerequisites: PSYC 201S with a grade of C (2.0) or higher
PSYC 308 Positive Psychology (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines and discusses psychological theories and research that focus on human strengths and potential. Factors that contribute to happiness and a fulfilling life are emphasized. Lectures, self-assessments and experiential exercises are used to understand how to cultivate a meaningful life.
Prerequisites: Completion of PSYC 201S with a grade of C (2.0) or higher
PSYC 311 Psychology of Criminal Behavior (3 Credit Hours)
The study of crime from a psychological perspective. Topics include theories of criminal behavior, violent and non-violent crime, sexual offenses, insanity, addiction, white collar crime, and other criminal behaviors.
Prerequisites: Completion of PSYC 201S with a grade of C (2.0) or higher
PSYC 317 Quantitative Methods (4 Credit Hours)
The application of inferential statistical principles to psychological research problems.
Prerequisites: Completion of PSYC 201S and MATH 102M or higher, both with a grade of C (2.0) or higher
PSYC 318W Research Methods in Psychology (4 Credit Hours)
An examination of research principles and techniques in psychology. Experimental design and interpretation is stressed.  Students learn to locate and read technical articles and to report on research projects in the style of the American Psychological Association.  This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: Completion of ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 226C or ENGL 231C and PSYC 317 , both with a grade of C (2.0) or higher
PSYC 321 Psychology of the Exceptional Child (3 Credit Hours)
A study of the psychological development of the child with physical, emotional, social, intellectual, and educational disabilities.
Prerequisites: Completion of PSYC 201S or PSYC 203S with a grade of C (2.0) or higher
PSYC 322 The Psychology of Adolescence (3 Credit Hours)
A survey of the processes of development during adolescence. Covers topics such as the influences of biological, emotional, social, and cognitive factors on personality development and adjustment of the adolescent.
Prerequisites: Completion of PSYC 201S or PSYC 203S with a grade of C (2.0) or higher
PSYC 324 Psychology of Gender (3 Credit Hours)
Concepts and theories of sex and gender, including models of how gender roles are developed and maintained, will be examined. Major research findings regarding gender will be reviewed.
Prerequisites: PSYC 201S with a grade of C (2.0) or higher
PSYC 325 Drugs and Behavior (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of the effects of psychoactive drugs on behavior and the factors involved in drug use. Current research literature is discussed.
Prerequisites: Completion of PSYC 201S with a grade of C (2.0) or higher
PSYC 343 Personnel Psychology (3 Credit Hours)
The application of psychological principles and research to the development and improvement of personnel subsystems in business and industry.  Emphasis is placed on the assessment, selection and training of workers and manager.
Prerequisites: Completion of PSYC 201S with a grade of C (2.0) or higher
PSYC 344 Human Factors (3 Credit Hours)
The application and evaluation of psychological principles and research relating human behavior to the design of tools, technology, and the work environment.
Prerequisites: PSYC 201S with a grade of C (2.0) or higher
PSYC 345 Organizational Psychology (3 Credit Hours)
This course emphasizes the study of human behavior in organizations. Topics include leadership, motivation, group behavior, communications, power and politics, and organization change.
Prerequisites: Completion of PSYC 201S with a grade of C (2.0) or higher
PSYC 351 Child Psychology (3 Credit Hours)
The development of children within their diverse environments is examined. A focus is on the methods used to understand how children experience their world.
Prerequisites: PSYC 201S with a grade of C (2.0) or higher or PSYC 203S with a grade of C (2.0) or higher
PSYC 353 The Psychology of Adulthood and Aging (3 Credit Hours)
The study of adults with emphasis on aging. Current theories and research as well as the characteristics, lifestyles, and activities of adulthood and aging will be discussed.
Prerequisites: PSYC 201S with a grade of C (2.0) or higher or PSYC 203S with a grade of C (2.0) or higher
PSYC 363 Psychology of Sex (3 Credit Hours)
A study of critical issues in human sexuality; gender and sexual identity, sexual arousal and erotic behavior, relationship development, and sexual dysfunction and deviation disorders.
Prerequisites: Completion of PSYC 201S with a grade of C (2.0) or higher or permission of the instructor
PSYC 365 Undergraduate Teaching Assistant I (1-3 Credit Hours)
This course affords students the opportunity to earn course credit for their work in supporting instructors and engaging with their peers in an undergraduate level course. It is designed for motivated and academically inclined students who wish to contribute to the educational environment and gain valuable, practical experience. Students work with instructors to identify appropriate tasks to be completed. 1-3 credits may be earned based on the number of hours involved in direct activities for the assigned class (3 credits = 9 hours per week; 2 credits = 6 hours per week; 1 credit = 3 hours per week). Students must be selected by the instructor. Positions are not guaranteed. Maximum of 6 credit hours allowed between PSYC 365 and PSYC 366 .
Prerequisites: PSYC 201S with a grade of C or better, grade of B or higher in the course in which student serves as an undergraduate teaching assistant, and permission of instructor
PSYC 366 Undergraduate Teaching Assistant II (1-3 Credit Hours)
This course affords students the opportunity to earn course credit for their work in supporting instructors and engaging with their peers in an undergraduate level course. It is designed for motivated and academically inclined students who wish to contribute to the educational environment and gain valuable, practical experience. Students work with instructors to identify appropriate tasks to be completed. 1-3 credits may be earned based on the number of hours involved in direct activities for the assigned class (3 credits = 9 hours per week; 2 credits = 6 hours per week; 1 credit = 3 hours per week). Students must be selected by the instructor. Positions are not guaranteed. Maximum of 6 credit hours allowed between PSYC 365 and PSYC 366 .
Prerequisites: PSYC 201S with a grade of C or better, grade of B or higher in the course in which student serves as an undergraduate teaching assistant, PSYC 365 , and permission of instructor
PSYC 368 General Internship in Psychology (3 Credit Hours)
For ODU psychology majors only. Students engage in academically relevant work-related activities in non-clinical settings. Available for pass/fail grading only. Students should work with the Instructor to identify their placement in the semester prior to enrollment. A maximum of 6 credits of PSYC 368 and/or PSYC 369 can be counted towards the major in Psychology. Pre- or
Prerequisites: Completion of PSYC 317 with a grade of C (2.0) or higher and permission of the instructor
Corequisites: PSYC 318W
PSYC 369 Clinical Internship in Psychology (3 Credit Hours)
For ODU psychology majors only. Students engage in academically relevant work activities in clinical settings. Available for pass/fail grading only. Students should work with the Instructor to identify their placement in the semester prior to enrollment. Instructor approval is required prior to registration. A maximum of 6 credits of PSYC 368 and/or PSYC 369 can be counted towards the major in Psychology.
Prerequisites: Completion of PSYC 317 with a grade of C (2.0) or higher; at least 80 earned credits hours; at least 14 hours in Psychology at the 300/400 level; and permission of the instructor
Corequisites: PSYC 371
PSYC 371 Clinical Supervision in Psychology (1 Credit Hour)
Students doing clinical internships at designated clinical placements must also enroll in this course taught by a faculty member. This seminar addresses the special issues in the areas of safety, confidentiality, and professionalism that arise in clinical settings. Students doing general (non-clinical) internships may also enroll in the course with permission of the Instructor. A maximum of 2 credits of PSYC 371 can be counted towards the major in psychology.
Prerequisites: PSYC 317 with a grade of C (2.0) or higher and permission of the instructor
Pre- or corequisite: PSYC 318W with a grade of C or higher
PSYC 395 Topics in Psychology (1-3 Credit Hours)
The department offers selected topics that may not be offered on a regular basis.
Prerequisites: permission of the instructor
PSYC 396 Topics in Psychology (1-3 Credit Hours)
The department offers selected topics that may not be offered on a regular basis.
Prerequisites: permission of the instructor
PSYC 403 History of Psychology (2-3 Credit Hours)
A survey of the historical development of modern psychology. The major systems and their influences on contemporary American psychology are studied.
Prerequisites: Completion of PSYC 201S with a grade of C (2.0) or higher
PSYC 405 Psychopathology (3 Credit Hours)
A study of psychopathology, covering various behavior disorders, their descriptions, characteristics, and causation. Methods of therapeutic technique are reviewed.
Prerequisites: Completion of PSYC 201S with a grade of C (2.0) or higher
PSYC 408 Theories of Personality (3 Credit Hours)
A study of the structure of personality and the dimensions along which individuals differ. The contributions of major personality theorists and the implications of current research are considered.
Prerequisites: Completion of PSYC 201S with a grade of C (2.0) or higher
PSYC 410 Human Cognition (3 Credit Hours)
An investigation of the ways in which people learn and think. Current models of human memory and cognition are considered in relation to the evidence on human thinking capabilities. The role of language in thought and knowledge acquisition is also explored.
Prerequisites: Completion of PSYC 201S with a grade of C (2.0) or higher
PSYC 412 Psychological Tests (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of the history, theory and applications of psychological testing.
Prerequisites: Completion of PSYC 201S with a grade of C (2.0) or higher
PSYC 413 Sensation and Perception (3 Credit Hours)
An analysis of the processes by which humans obtain information about the environment through the eyes, ears, and other sensory systems.
Prerequisites: Completion of PSYC 201S with a grade of C (2.0) or higher
PSYC 414 Principles of Learning (3 Credit Hours)
Course focuses on basic learning principles and processes; classical conditioning, instrumental conditioning, discrimination, attention, appetitive and aversive conditioning.
Prerequisites: Completion of PSYC 201S with a grade of C (2.0) or higher
PSYC 417 Advanced Statistics and Computer Applications (3 Credit Hours)
The course covers advanced statistical methods and computer applications that build on knowledge and skills acquired in PSYC 317 .
Prerequisites: Completion of PSYC 317 with a grade of C (2.0) or higher
PSYC 420 Cross-Cultural Psychology (3 Credit Hours)
A wide variety of psychological research and theory relevant to human behavior in different cultures is examined and the impact of culture on human behavior is discussed.  The course examines cross-cultural research conducted by scholars around the world.  In addition to factual knowledge, emphasis is placed on critical thinking and problem solving.
Prerequisites: Completion of PSYC 201S with a grade of C (2.0) or higher
PSYC 424 Physiological Psychology (3 Credit Hours)
An investigation of the biological bases of behavior including mental illness, motivation, learning, memory and language.
Prerequisites: Completion of PSYC 201S with a grade of C (2.0) or higher
PSYC 460 Psychology of African Americans (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the issues and perspectives related to the psychological evolution of African Americans in the United States. Particular emphasis is placed on exploring the discipline of psychology from an Afrocentric focus.
Prerequisites: Completion of PSYC 201S with a grade of C (2.0) or higher or permission of the instructor
PSYC 487 Honors Program in Psychology (3 Credit Hours)
For ODU psychology majors only.  With psychology faculty supervision, student develops an honors thesis proposal for approval by the Psychology Honors Program committee. See section on Honors Program in Psychology in this Catalog.
Prerequisites: PSYC 497 ; cumulative GPA of 3.25 or higher and psychology GPA of 3.50 or higher; permission of the departmental Honors Program chair
PSYC 488 Honors Program in Psychology (3 Credit Hours)
For ODU psychology majors only.  With psychology faculty supervision, student conducts the supervised honors research and documents it in a thesis for approval by the Psychology Honors Program committee.  Student also participates in a required seminar to discuss and present the research.  See section on Honors Program in Psychology in this Catalog.
Prerequisites: PSYC 497 ; cumulative GPA of 3.25 or higher and psychology GPA of 3.50 or higher; permission of the departmental Honors Program chair
PSYC 489 Readings in Psychology (3 Credit Hours)
The course may be taken only once.  An individualized course in which the student does library research and writes a paper.
Prerequisites: approval by supervisory faculty member and department
PSYC 490 Readings in Psychology (3 Credit Hours)
The course may be taken only once.  An individualized course in which the student does library research and writes a paper.
Prerequisites: approval by supervisory faculty member and department
PSYC 494 Entrepreneurship in Psychology (3 Credit Hours)
The entrepreneurship is a course designed to help students enhance their personal and professional development through innovation guided by faculty members and professionals. It offers students an opportunity to integrate disciplinary theory and knowledge through developing a nonprofit program, product, business, or other initiative. The real-world experiences that entrepreneurships provide will help students understand how academic knowledge leads to transformations, innovations, and solutions to different types of problems.
Prerequisites: Junior standing
PSYC 495 Topics in Psychology (1-3 Credit Hours)
The department offers selected topics that may not be offered regularly.  These special topics will appear in the course listing each semester.
Prerequisites: PSYC 201S or permission of the instructor
PSYC 496 Topics (1-3 Credit Hours)
The department offers selected topics that may not be offered regularly. These special topics will appear in the course listing each semester.
Prerequisites: Completion of PSYC 201S with a grade of C (2.0) or higher or permission of the instructor
PSYC 497 Supervised Research (3 Credit Hours)
For ODU psychology majors only.  Student and faculty supervisor develop and approve a contract of required research activities for the semester, such as attending research lab meetings, data collection, coding and/or analysis, library research, etc.
Prerequisites: GPA of 2.5 and pre-approval by psychology faculty supervisor
PSYC 498 Supervised Research (3 Credit Hours)
For ODU psychology majors only.  Student and faculty supervisor develop and approve a contract of required research activities for the semester, such as attending research lab meetings, data collection, coding and/or analysis, library research, etc.
Prerequisites: GPA of 2.5 and pre-approval by psychology faculty supervisor
PSYC 651 Developmental Psychology (3 Credit Hours)
This course covers topics related to the physical, cognitive, social and emotional aspects of growth, from conception to death.  It focuses on human growth and development, but other organisms are also considered.
PSYC 661 Psychopathology (3 Credit Hours)
The course provides a conceptual basis for the study of abnormal behavior. Students conduct an in-depth review of the literature related to the classification, etiology, and treatment of mental disorders.
PSYC 662 Human-Computer Interface Design (3 Credit Hours)
Course introduces students to the fundamental principles of human-computer interaction.  Exposes students to basic psychological concepts and shows how they are used to create effective interface designs.  Covers both theoretical and practical aspects of interface design.
Prerequisites: graduate standing and permission of the instructor
PSYC 664 Personality Assessment (3 Credit Hours)
This course covers history of personality theory and assessment and psychometrics, and introduces tools and techniques aimed at understanding individual differences in personality and assessment of major psychopathology.
Prerequisites: Student must be a clinical Ph.D. degree student or receive permission of the instructor
PSYC 667 Practicum in Psychology (2-5 Credit Hours)
Students will receive supervised training in an applied setting in the area of clinical or industrial psychology.
Prerequisites: 15 graduate course hours (including PSYC 663) and permission of the instructor
PSYC 696 Topics in Psychology (3 Credit Hours)
PSYC 697 Selected Topics in Psychology (1-4 Credit Hours)
This course provides opportunities for advanced investigations of selected topics in psychology.  May be taken by students beyond the first year of graduate study who wish to pursue topics not covered by regularly scheduled courses.
Prerequisites: permission of the instructor and graduate program director
PSYC 698 Research in Psychology (3 Credit Hours)
Individual project under guidance of a research advisor.  Required for students choosing thesis option.  Limited to a total of 3 hours of credit.
PSYC 699 Thesis (1-3 Credit Hours)
Individual project under guidance of a research advisor.  Required for students choosing thesis option.
Prerequisites: PSYC 698
PSYC 713 Research Methods in Psychology (3 Credit Hours)
This course will cover research design and methodology.  Topics may include experimental, quasi-experimental, single subject and survey research; validity; reliability; confounds; measurement; sampling; inductive inference.  Additionally, this course will cover Responsible Conduct of Research, including completion of CITI course, protection of human subjects, University Human Subjects Committee and IRB, APA Style, paper structure, references, tables, figures, etc., research proposal writing, including searching for sources, writing, oral presentation, data collection and management issues (e.g., Qualtrics, SONA, data cleaning).  Students are required to complete a Research Proposal with Introduction and Methods and Data Analysis Plan and give an oral presentation of research proposal.
PSYC 722 Occupational Health Psychology (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines multidisciplinary research and theories on issues related to individual and organizational well-being and health.  Occupational health psychology (OHP) emphasizes the promotion of wellness and the prevention of injuries and illnesses in the workplace.  Through lectures/presentations, discussions, and research activities, students will learn about OHP theory and practice.
Prerequisites: PSYC 763 /863 and PSYC 850
PSYC 727 Analysis of Variance and Experimental Design (4 Credit Hours)
Review of the basic descriptive and inferential statistical procedures with a heavy emphasis on fundamental and advanced analysis of variance techniques.  Topics include contrasts, factorial designs, within-subject and mixed designs, and analysis of covariance.  Course materials are covered in the context of classical experimental and quasi-experimental design.
Prerequisites: admission into the psychology M.S. or Ph.D. program or permission of the instructor
PSYC 728 Regressional and Correlational Design (4 Credit Hours)
Course covers correlation with heavy emphasis on regression analysis in the context of the general linear model.  Topics include partial correlations, categorical and continuous interactions, non-linear regression, and multivariate statistics.  Course materials are covered in the context of correlational designs and survey research.
Prerequisites: Admission into the psychology M.S. or Ph.D. program or permission of the instructor and PSYC 727 / PSYC 827 or equivalent
PSYC 731 Human Cognition (3 Credit Hours)
An investigation of the ways in which people process and retain information, make decisions, and solve problems.  Current models of structures and processes of human memory and cognition are discussed with particular emphasis on neurocognitive evidence of the brain mechanisms involved in cognition.
Prerequisites: admission into the psychology M.S. or Ph.D. program or permission of the instructor
PSYC 735 Health Psychology (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on contemporary theory and research topics in health psychology.  The course examines psychological and behavioral issues affecting health maintenance, coping with life-threatening illnesses and chronic diseases, and health promotion.  The course uses the biopsychosocial (mind-body) model as an organizing framework, emphasizing the dynamic interactions among biological, social, personality, and behavioral factors jointly in influencing people’s health.  The course is conducted as a seminar.
PSYC 736 Multilevel Models: HLM (3 Credit Hours)
Social science data frequently have a hierarchical or multilevel structure as a consequence of sampling designs or repeated measures. The purpose of the course is to introduce students to the basic principles and applications of hierarchical linear modeling in social science research. Topics covered include an introduction to multilevel analyses, random intercept models, random slope models, hypotheses testing, hierarchical models for limited dependent variables, model fitting, three-level models, and repeated-measures applications.
Prerequisites: PSYC 728 or PSYC 828 or equivalent
PSYC 740 Quasi-Experimental Methods (3 Credit Hours)
Quasi-experimental methods is a course to teach techniques for research designs not conducive to randomized-control trials.  The philosophy of these techniques, issues of validity, and analyses are discussed.  Comparisons with randomized-control trials as well as means to strengthen quasi-methodologies for better general causal inferences are presented.
PSYC 741 Sensation and Perception (3 Credit Hours)
A survey of human sensation and perception emphasizing historical contributions, recent theoretical and methodological developments, and empirical findings.
PSYC 744 Program Evaluation (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to introduce students to the field of program evaluation as well as to give students practical experience conducting a program evaluation.  Students will get experience creating and conducting qualitative and quantitative assessments.  A course goal is to work in small groups to conduct a program evaluation.
Prerequisites: PSYC 727 / PSYC 827 and PSYC 728 / PSYC 828 (or current enrollment)
PSYC 745 Psychometric Theory (3 Credit Hours)
This course introduces classical test theory, including definitions and equations for test reliability, standard error of measurement, and related statistics.  Additional topics include scaling, item statistics useful in test constructions, norms commonly used in educational and psychological testing, test validity and exploratory factor analysis.  If time permits, Item Response (IRT) and Generalizability Theory are introduced.
Prerequisites: PSYC 728 or PSYC 828 or equivalent
PSYC 746 Structural Equation Modeling (3 Credit Hours)
This course covers the topics of linear structural equation modeling and focuses on estimation, measurement models, confirmatory and hierarchical factor analysis, structural equations, longitudinal models, multisample analyses, and mean structures.
Prerequisites: PSYC 745 or PSYC 845 or equivalent
PSYC 747 Multivariate Methods for the Social/Behavioral Sciences (3 Credit Hours)
The course is focused on methods and techniques for analyzing multivariate data. Emphasis includes both conceptual and computational aspects of the most commonly used analytical tools when experimental units have multiple measures. A goal of the course is to avoid the extremes of "plug n chug" analyses on the one hand and theorems and proofs on the other to provide generalizable working knowledge of multivariate statistics. Featured techniques are MANOVA, MANCOVA, profile analysis, discriminant analysis, canonical correlation, principal components analysis, and exploratory factor analysis.
Prerequisites: PSYC 728 or PSYC 828 or equivalent
PSYC 748 Categorical Methods for the Social/Behavioral Sciences (3 Credit Hours)
The purpose of this course is to review the linear regression model and move into categorical methods.  Featured methods are inference using proportions and odds ratios, multi-way contingency tables, logistic regression, and loglinear models.  The generalized linear model is also introduced.
Prerequisites: PSYC 727 / PSYC 827 or PSYC 728 / PSYC 828
PSYC 749 Advanced Social Psychology (3 Credit Hours)
This course discusses the behavior of the human as a member of a group.  Topics include attitude theory and change, interpersonal attraction, group dynamics, and related theory and applied research techniques.
PSYC 750 Organizational Psychology (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides an overview of organizational behavior and theory.  Topics include leadership, motivation, teams, social processes at work, workplace relationships, organization structure and environments, and organizational development and change.
PSYC 763 Personnel Psychology (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides an overview of personnel psychology. Topics include reliability and validity, job analysis, performance criteria, performance appraisal, employee recruitment, employee selection, and training and development.
PSYC 770 Human Factors Psychology (3 Credit Hours)
The application and evaluation of psychological principles and research relating human behavior to the design of tools, technology, and the work environment.  Theory, methods, and application are emphasized.
Prerequisites: PSYC 731 / PSYC 831 and PSYC 741 / PSYC 841 or equivalents or permission of the instructor
PSYC 771 Ergonomics (3 Credit Hours)
Basic overview and application of anthropometry, biomechanics, functional anatomy, mechanics, and human physiology for the design of industrial tools, equipment, and workstations.
PSYC 776 Human-Computer Interaction (3 Credit Hours)
Review of the physical, cognitive, and performance capabilities and limitations of humans as they interact with modern computer systems. Emphasis is placed on the tools, techniques and procedures for the assessment and effective design of computer hardware, software and displays of information.
PSYC 780 Ethics, Professional Standards, and Responsible Conduct (3 Credit Hours)
Ethical principles, APA codes, laws, policies and approaches to ethical decision making will be applied to case studies involving dilemmas and issues in several areas of the professional activities of psychologists.  Students will prepare an ethical and/or professional issue paper and a self-reflection on acculturation into professional ethics and standards.
PSYC 781 Advanced Ergonomics (3 Credit Hours)
Basic overview of the application of anthropometry, biomechanics, ergonomics, cognition and perception within workplace environments.  Particular focus on the analysis and prevention of accidents at work.  Course requires considerable practice in technical writing.
PSYC 792 Advanced Seminar in Physiological Psychology (3 Credit Hours)
Students will investigate the biological underpinnings of behavior and explore what is currently known about their role in movement, emotions, mental illness, sexual behavior, memory, states of consciousness, sensory perception, thought and language, and several neuro-psychiatric disorders.  Through active learning exercises, i.e., class discussion, reports, critiques, oral presentations, and a final research paper or proposal, students will apply and demonstrate their acquired knowledge and critical thinking skills to the biological basis of human behavior.
PSYC 795 Topics in Psychology I (1-4 Credit Hours)
PSYC 796 Topics in Psychology II (1-4 Credit Hours)
PSYC 801 Empirically-Supported Therapies (3 Credit Hours)
Empirically-Supported Therapies is designed to foster the integration of clinical science and the practice of psychotherapy. Course objectives include learning how to identify, evaluate, and implement empirically supported interventions for various psychological disorders.
PSYC 810 Seminar in Professional Aspects of Industrial/Organizational Psychology (3 Credit Hours)
Topics covered include standards of professional behavior of I/O psychologists, the governance of psychology, I/O psychology professional associations, and professional opportunities for I/O psychologists.
Prerequisites: admission into the I/O Ph.D. program
PSYC 813 Research Methods in Psychology (3 Credit Hours)
This course will cover research design and methodology.  Topics may include experimental, quasi-experimental, single subject and survey research; validity; reliability; confounds; measurement; sampling; inductive inference.  Additionally, this course will cover Responsible Conduct of Research, including completion of CITI course, protection of human subjects, University Human Subjects Committee and IRB, APA Style, paper structure, references, tables, figures, etc., research proposal writing, including searching for sources, writing, oral presentation, data collection and management issues (e.g., Qualtrics, SONA, data cleaning).  Students are required to complete a Research Proposal with Introduction and Methods and Data Analysis Plan and give an oral presentation of research proposal.
PSYC 815 Teaching Psychology (1 Credit Hour)
Seminar on the pedagogy of teaching as applied to the discipline of psychology.  Topics include syllabus preparation, lecture and discussion methods, assessment and grading, and teaching portfolio development.
PSYC 822 Occupational Health Psychology (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines multidisciplinary research and theories on issues related to individual and organizational well-being and health.  Occupational health psychology (OHP) emphasizes the promotion of wellness and the prevention of injuries and illnesses in the workplace.  Through lectures/presentations, discussions, and research activities, students will learn about OHP theory and practice.
Prerequisites: PSYC 763 / PSYC 863 and PSYC 850
PSYC 827 Analysis of Variance and Experimental Design (4 Credit Hours)
Review of the basic descriptive and inferential statistical procedures with a heavy emphasis on fundamental and advanced analysis of variance techniques.  Topics include contrasts, factorial designs, within-subject and mixed designs, and analysis of covariance.  Course materials are covered in the context of classical experimental and quasi-experimental design.
Prerequisites: admission into the psychology M.S. or Ph.D. program or permission of the instructor
PSYC 828 Regressional and Correlational Design (4 Credit Hours)
Course covers correlation with heavy emphasis on regression analysis in the context of the general linear model.  Topics include partial correlations, categorical and continuous interactions, non-linear regression, and multivariate statistics.  Course materials are covered in the context of correlational designs and survey research.
Prerequisites: Admission into the psychology M.S. or Ph.D. program or permission of the instructor and PSYC 727 / PSYC 827 or equivalent
PSYC 831 Human Cognition (3 Credit Hours)
An investigation of the ways in which people process and retain information, make decisions, and solve problems.  Current models of structures and processes of human memory and cognition are discussed with particular emphasis on neurocognitive evidence of the brain mechanisms involved in cognition.
Prerequisites: admission into the psychology M.S. or Ph.D. program or permission of the instructor
PSYC 833 Grant and Manuscript Writing (3 Credit Hours)
The course is designed: (1) to teach students to write article-length scholarly manuscripts in APA format of publishable quality, and (2) to teach students the critical components of grant applications.  By the end of this course, each student will have prepared a manuscript that is ready for submission to a peer-reviewed journal and have completed sections of a federal grant application.
Prerequisites: admission to the doctoral program in psychology and completion of master's thesis, or permission of instructor
PSYC 835 Health Psychology (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on contemporary theory and research topics in health psychology.  The course examines psychological and behavioral issues affecting health maintenance, coping with life-threatening illnesses and chronic diseases, and health promotion.  The course uses the biopsychosocial (mind-body) model as an organizing framework, emphasizing the dynamic interactions among biological, social, personality, and behavioral factors jointly in influencing people's health.  The course is conducted as a seminar.
PSYC 836 Multilevel Models: HLM (3 Credit Hours)
Social science data frequently have a hierarchical or multilevel structure as a consequence of sampling designs or repeated measures. The purpose of the course is to introduce students to the basic principles and applications of hierarchical linear modeling in social science research. Topics covered include an introduction to multilevel analyses, random intercept models, random slope models, hypotheses testing, hierarchical models for limited dependent variables, model fitting, three-level models, and repeated-measures applications.
Prerequisites: PSYC 728 or PSYC 828 or equivalent
PSYC 837 Longitudinal Data Analysis (3 Credit Hours)
This course will introduce students to the theory and practice of longitudinal data analysis. It will examine a number of approaches for modeling change (in continuous outcomes) and event occurrence (broadly defined, in categorical or ordinal outcomes), including a careful treatment of the metric of time as well as missing data. Students will learn to develop, implement, interpret, and report research involving longitudinal data analyses. The use of statistical software is also illustrated.
Prerequisites: PSYC 728 or PSYC 828 and PSYC 736 or PSYC 836
PSYC 840 Quasi-Experimental Methods (3 Credit Hours)
Quasi-experimental methods is a course to teach techniques for research designs not conducive to randomized-control trials.  The philosophy of these techniques, issues of validity, and analyses are discussed.  Comparisons with randomized-control trials as well as means to strengthen quasi-methodologies for better general causal inferences are presented.
PSYC 841 Sensation and Perception (3 Credit Hours)
A survey of human sensation and perception emphasizing historical contributions, recent theoretical and methodological developments, and empirical findings.
PSYC 844 Program Evaluation (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to introduce students to the field of program evaluation as well as to give students practical experience conducting a program evaluation.  Students will get experience creating and conducting qualitative and quantitative assessments.  A course goal is to work in small groups to conduct a program evaluation.
Prerequisites: PSYC 727 / PSYC 827 and PSYC 728 / PSYC 828 (or current enrollment)
PSYC 845 Psychometric Theory (3 Credit Hours)
This course introduces classical test theory, including definitions and equations for test reliability, standard error of measurement, and related statistics.  Additional topics include scaling, item statistics useful in test construction, norms commonly used in educational and psychological testing, test validity, and exploratory factor analysis.  If time permits, Item Response Theory (IRT) and Generalizability Theory are introduced.
Prerequisites: PSYC 728 or PSYC 828 or equivalent
PSYC 846 Structural Equation Modeling (3 Credit Hours)
This course covers the topics of linear structural equation modeling and focuses on estimation, measurement models, confirmatory and hierarchical factor analysis, structural equations, longitudinal models, multisample analyses, and mean structures.
Prerequisites: PSYC 745 or PSYC 845 or equivalent
PSYC 847 Multivariate Methods for the Social/Behavioral Sciences (3 Credit Hours)
The course is focused on methods and techniques for analyzing multivariate data. Emphasis includes both conceptual and computational aspects of the most commonly used analytical tools when experimental units have multiple measures. A goal of the course is to avoid the extremes of "plug n chug" analyses on the one hand and theorems and proofs on the other to provide generalizable working knowledge of multivariate statistics. Featured techniques are MANOVA, MANCOVA, profile analysis, discriminant analysis, canonical correlation, principal components analysis, and exploratory factor analysis.
Prerequisites: PSYC 728 or PSYC 828 or equivalent
PSYC 848 Categorical Methods for the Social/Behavioral Sciences (3 Credit Hours)
The purpose of this course is to review the linear regression model and move into categorical methods.  Featured methods are inference using proportions and odds ratios, multi-way contingency tables, logistic regression, and loglinear models.  The generalized linear model is also introduced.
Prerequisites: PSYC 727 / PSYC 827 or PSYC 728 / PSYC 828
PSYC 849 Advanced Social Psychology (3 Credit Hours)
This course discusses the behavior of the human as a member of a group.  Topics include attitude theory and change, interpersonal attraction, group dynamics, and related theory and applied research techniques.
PSYC 850 Organizational Psychology (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides an overview of organizational behavior and theory.  Topics include leadership, motivation, teams, social processes at work, workplace relationships, organization structure and environments, and organizational development and change.
PSYC 851 Organizational Leadership (3 Credit Hours)
This course concerns the study of leadership and its effects on organizational behavior and effectiveness as well as employee well-being and health. Emphasis will be placed on classic and contemporary leadership theory and research.
Prerequisites: PSYC 750 / PSYC 850 or permission of the instructor
PSYC 853 Job Attitudes and Motivation (3 Credit Hours)
The course focuses on the major concepts, issues, principles, and findings of job attitudes and motivation at the workplace. The student who successfully completes this course should be able to apply knowledge and skills to workplace issues regarding job attitudes and motivation, as well as stimulate ideas for future research projects.
PSYC 854 Organizational Development and Change (3 Credit Hours)
This seminar discusses models and theories of organizational change and interventions that are commonly used to foster organizational development and effectiveness. Students participate in an organizational consulting project to apply lessons learned in the classroom.
Prerequisites: PSYC 851 and PSYC 853 or permission of the instructor
PSYC 858 ODU Clinical and Ethical Issues (1 Credit Hour)
Weekly seminars address professional and ethical issues in the practice of clinical psychology.
PSYC 863 Personnel Psychology (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides an overview of personnel psychology. Topics include reliability and validity, job analysis, performance criteria, performance appraisal, employee recruitment, employee selection, and training and development.
PSYC 864 Human Resource Development (3 Credit Hours)
This course covers research findings, methodologies, and evaluation designs for the training and development of personnel in organizations.  Specific topics include needs assessment, learning principles and system design.
Prerequisites: PSYC 763 / PSYC 863 or permission of the instructor
PSYC 865 Psychology of Personnel Selection (3 Credit Hours)
This course covers the topics of recruitment, job performance, interviews, internet-based testing, and psychological constructs for use in employee selection (e.g., intelligence, personality).
Prerequisites: PSYC 763 / PSYC 863 or permission of the instructor
PSYC 867 Human Performance Assessment (3 Credit Hours)
This course covers the job analysis and performance appraisal/management (PA/MA). Specific topics include job analysis methods; use of job analysis results for various HR functions; performance assessment/appraisal methods; multi-source feedback; employee reactions to and use of PA/MA information; rater cognitive processes and affect; rater goals, bias, and accuracy; and organizational practical and legal issues surrounding job analysis and PA/PM.
Prerequisites: PSYC 763 / PSYC 863 or permission of the instructor
PSYC 868 Internship (1 Credit Hour)
The course is designed to provide individual students with advanced on-the-job professional experience. Internship assignments must be approved by the student's program of study. Direct supervision is given by an experienced professional at the internship setting.
PSYC 870 Human Factors Psychology (3 Credit Hours)
The application and evaluation of psychological principles and research relating human behavior to the design of tools, technology, and the work environment.  Theory, methods, and application are emphasized.
Prerequisites: PSYC 731 / PSYC 831 and PSYC 741 / PSYC 841 or equivalents or permission of the instructor
PSYC 871 Ergonomics (3 Credit Hours)
Basic overview and application of anthropometry, biomechanics, functional anatomy, mechanics, and human physiology for the design of industrial tools, equipment, and workstations.
PSYC 872 Methods, Measures, Techniques, and Tools in Human Factors (3 Credit Hours)
Experiential survey of methods, measures, techniques, and prototyping tools available for human factors investigations in laboratory and field settings.  The design and execution of experimental investigations utilizing the measures and tools are emphasized.
PSYC 873 ODU Biological Bases of Behavior (3 Credit Hours)
PSYC 876 Human-Computer Interaction (3 Credit Hours)
Review of the physical, cognitive, and performance capabilities and limitations of humans as they interact with modern computer systems.  Emphasis is placed on the tools, techniques and procedures for the assessment and effective design of computer hardware, software and displays of information.
PSYC 877 Theories, Models and Simulations in Human Factors (3 Credit Hours)
Survey of the historical and philosophical bases for the use of theories, models, and simulations in human factors applications with a critical evaluation of existing theories, mathematical and cognitive models, and simulations in terms of actual and potential contributions to the field.
PSYC 878 Advanced Cognition and Information Processing (3 Credit Hours)
Historical survey of human information processing literature, detailed review of recent developments in cognitive psychology, and examination of the purposes, role and scope of cognitive engineering.
PSYC 879 Careers (3 Credit Hours)
This course covers the developmental processes, facilitators, and barriers individuals encounter in their work lives.  It provides a theoretical foundation in the careers literature and introduces contemporary research in the area.  Work-family conflict, mentoring, organizational socialization, and career success are among the topics covered.
Prerequisites: PSYC 750 / PSYC 850 and PSYC 851 or permission of instructor
PSYC 880 Ethics, Professional Standards, and Responsible Conduct (3 Credit Hours)
Ethical principles, APA codes, laws, policies and approaches to ethical decision making will be applied to case studies involving dilemmas and issues in several areas of the professional activities of psychologists.  Students will prepare an ethical and/or professional issue paper and a self-reflection on acculturation into professional ethics and standards.
PSYC 881 Advanced Ergonomics (3 Credit Hours)
Basic overview of the application of anthropometry, biomechanics, ergonomics, cognition and perception within workplace environments.  Particular focus on the analysis and prevention of accidents at work.  Course requires considerable practice in technical writing.
PSYC 882 Attention and Human Performance (3 Credit Hours)
Survey of theories of attention, factors that influence human performance, and human performance assessment in human-machine systems.  Topics include dual-task performance, vigilance, workload, arousal, fatigue, stress, human error, psychophysiology, and neuroergonomics.
PSYC 883 Research in Clinical Psychology (1-4 Credit Hours)
Individual project under guidance of a research advisor.
PSYC 890 ODU Internship in Clinical/Community Psychology (4 Credit Hours)
Must be enrolled in psychology doctorate program.
Prerequisites: Permission of the clinical director
PSYC 891 Industrial/Organizational Internship (1 Credit Hour)
PSYC 892 Advanced Seminar in Physiological Psychology (3 Credit Hours)
Students will investigate the biological underpinnings of behavior and explore what is currently known about their role in movement, emotions, mental illness, sexual behavior, memory, states of consciousness, sensory perception, thought and language, and several neuro-psychiatric disorders.  Through active learning exercises, i.e., class discussion, reports, critiques, oral presentations, and a final research paper or proposal, students will apply and demonstrate their acquired knowledge and critical thinking skills to the biological basis of human behavior.
PSYC 894 ODU Clinical Dissertation (1-6 Credit Hours)
1-6 credits each semester for variable credit.
PSYC 895 Topics in Psychology I (1-4 Credit Hours)
PSYC 896 Topics in Psychology II (1-4 Credit Hours)
PSYC 897 Individual Study (Readings) (1-4 Credit Hours)
PSYC 898 Research (3 Credit Hours)
PSYC 899 Dissertation (1-9 Credit Hours)
Directed research in preparation for the dissertation.
PSYC 998 Master's Graduate Credit (1 Credit Hour)
This course is a pass/fail course for master's students in their final semester. It may be taken to fulfill the registration requirement necessary for graduation.  All master's students are required to be registered for at least one graduate credit hour in the semester of their graduation.
PSYC 999 Doctoral Graduate Credit (1 Credit Hour)
This course is a pass/fail course doctoral students may take to maintain active status after successfully passing the candidacy examination.  All doctoral students are required to be registered for at least one graduate credit hour every semester until their graduation.
Search catalog
