Graduate Courses
QUST 302W Dimensions of Diversity: Intersectionality Among Women (3 Credit Hours)
This course explores the intersections of gender, race, class, and sexuality within society; it examines how identity has been a key site for generating knowledge and political action. Students will learn the histories and nuances of topics such as intersectionality, privilege, allyship, and cultural appropriation. Finally, the course will examine how concepts such as 'diversity' are mobilized in relation to different institutions, such as the law and education. This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: WGS 201S , a grade of C or better in ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C , and 6 semester hours in literature, history, social sciences, and/or performing arts courses
QUST 303 Queer Studies (3 Credit Hours)
This course is an interdisciplinary study of LGBTQ+ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer) experiences. It introduces students to personal, cultural, and political aspects of queer life while examining social forces such as heteronormativity, the social construction of gender, and homophobia and their impact on queer lives.
Prerequisites: WGS 201S or instructor approval
QUST 305 Queer Literature (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides a historical sampling of queer literary voices in the U.S. Students explore fiction, poetry, drama, and visual literary forms through the lens of queer theory. Students investigate the ways in which queer authors and subjects have been excluded from the traditional canon and how readers, academics, critics, and authors of anthologies have ignored or obscured queer possibilities and homoeroticism in literary works. Students also explore the benefits of thinking of queer literary works as queer literatures (in the plural sense rather than the singular Queer Literature) and attempt to answer the question, is there such a thing as Queer Literature?
Prerequisites: ENGL 112L , ENGL 114L , or WCS 100L
QUST 395 Topics in Queer Studies (1-3 Credit Hours)
A study of selected topics in Queer Studies. These courses are usually interdisciplinary and align with faculty teaching and research strengths.
Prerequisites: WGS 201S or instructor approval
QUST 402 Feminisms and Sexualities (3 Credit Hours)
This course will examine feminist approaches to the subject of sexuality in the twentieth and twenty-first centuries. The course examines theorizations of sexuality, such a radical, critical race, and transnational feminisms, queer theory, and trans studies. Key questions will be: how have feminists theorized sexualities? What does sexuality have to do with feminist studies or practices? How do other identities, such as race and class, inform sexuality?
Prerequisites: WGS 201S , WGS 390T or instructor approval
QUST 460W Feminist and Queer Theory (3 Credit Hours)
This course will examine feminist and queer theories, specifically intersectional, transnational, and radical perspectives. It explores how feminist and queer scholars approach research, writing, and knowledge production, and applies these insights to students' own interests. The course analyzes how feminist and queer scholars have written about storytelling, the body, and desire, and links these discussions to how to produce positive social change in our world. This course is fundamentally interdisciplinary; students are encouraged to make connections between the course materials, their research interests, and other fields of study. This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: WGS 201S , QUST 302W or WGS 302W , and a grade of C or better in ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C
QUST 495 Topics in Queer Studies (3 Credit Hours)
Advanced seminars on selected topics. The subject matters is usually interdisciplinary and aligns with faculty teaching and research strengths.
Prerequisites: WGS 201S or instructor approval
No Graduate courses found.
