Criminology (CRIM)
CRIM 700 Proseminar in Criminology and Criminal Justice (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides students with a broad overview of enduring topics and emerging issues in criminology and criminal justice.  It also explores the history and role of criminology as an academic discipline and criminal justice as an institutional system in American society.
CRIM 701 Criminology and Public Policy (3 Credit Hours)
This course covers the policy process as it relates to crime legislation, criminological theory and implications for public policy.
CRIM 702 Advanced Criminological Theory (3 Credit Hours)
This course is an examination of criminological theory for the advanced student.  The focus is on critical analysis of both contemporary and historical criminological theories.  In order to aid in the development of a critical understanding of theory, beyond understanding the content of central theories, the class focuses on discussion of theory development and testing.  In addition, the class focuses on an understanding of the relationship of one theory to another as well as the state of empirical evidence surrounding each theory.
CRIM 703 Inequality, Crime and Justice (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the linkages between social characteristics and crime.  The course concentrates on what we know about the impact of gender, age, race and social class on crime and criminal justice.
CRIM 705 Multivariate Statistics in Criminological Research (3 Credit Hours)
This course teaches multivariate statistical techniques to train criminal justice researchers and policy makers to explore the causes and consequences of crime and criminal justices policies.  Although the exact statistical techniques covered may vary, they will typically include multiple regression, multiple discriminate analysis, logistic regression, factor analysis, cluster analysis and path analysis.
CRIM 710 Qualitative Methods in Criminology and Criminal Justice (3 Credit Hours)
The central goal of this graduate seminar is to enable students to create and critique qualitative research designs focused on contemporary issues in criminology and criminal justice.  A number of qualitative approaches will be covered including field observational research, focused interviews, case studies and content analysis.  The seminar explores techniques, strengths and limitations of these varied qualitative methodologies.
CRIM 715 Advanced Quantitative Techniques in Criminology & Criminal Justice (3 Credit Hours)
This course explores advanced statistical techniques commonly used in research on crime and justice.  The major focus of the course will be hierarchical linear modeling (HLM), a diverse set of techniques that extend standard multivariate analysis to accommodate nested data.  Other advanced techniques will also be covered: event history/survival models, time series, etc.
CRIM 720 Advanced Research Methods in Criminology & Criminal Justice (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides students with advanced understanding of issues in criminology/criminal justice research including:   history, philosophy, sociology, epistemology, politics and ethics of social science research; methodological questions of reliability, validity, conceptualization, operationalization, scale construction, data collection methodologies, sampling.
CRIM 740 Social Structures, Crime and Justice (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the links between social structures and institutions, and justice at the individual, neighborhood, city, state and country levels. Students explore the ways in which structures and institutions are both agents of social control and facilitators or initiators of crime. Emphasis will be placed on theories, methodologies and empirical assessments.
CRIM 745 Crime and Communities (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides a foundation of the most important theories and research relating to residential communities and crime. The casual linkages between features of neighborhoods and social disorder will be explored in the context of criminological theories. Students will emerge with sufficient knowledge to develop a class or design a significant research project.
CRIM 750 Crimes of the State (3 Credit Hours)
This course explores crimes of the state from a sociological and criminological perspective by examining historical and current cases of governmental crime. This will cover the history, theory and method of the field; controls of and constraints on state crime; and cases of state crime.
CRIM 755 Researching the Criminal Justice System (3 Credit Hours)
Students will develop original research projects on the criminal justice system, police, courts and /or corrections. Projects will be designed to culminate in a publishable paper.
CRIM 760 Life Course Criminology (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to introduce graduate students to life-course perspectives for understanding crime and deviant behavior.  Students discuss the various methodologies, both quantitative and qualitative, most commonly found in studies of the life course today.
CRIM 795 Topics in Criminal Justice (1-3 Credit Hours)
Topics vary by semester
CRIM 797 Independent Study (1-3 Credit Hours)
Supervised independent study arranged with instructor and approved by graduate program director.
CRIM 800 Proseminar in Criminology and Criminal Justice (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides students with a broad overview of enduring topics and emerging issues in criminology and criminal justice.  It also explores the history and role of criminology as an academic discipline and criminal justice as an institutional system in American society.
CRIM 801 Criminology and Public Policy (3 Credit Hours)
To familiarize students with the policy process as it relates to crime legislation, criminological theory and implications for public policy.
CRIM 802 Advanced Criminological Theory (3 Credit Hours)
This course is an examination of criminological theory for the advanced student.  The focus is on critical analysis of both contemporary and historical criminological theories.  In order to aid in the development of a critical understanding of theory, beyond understanding the content of central theories, the class focuses on discussion of theory development and testing.  In addition, the class focuses on an understanding of the relationship of one theory to another as well as the state of empirical evidence surrounding each theory.
CRIM 803 Inequality, Crime and Justice (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the linkages between social characteristics and crime.  The course concentrates on what is known about the impact of gender, age, race and social class on crime and criminal justice.
CRIM 805 Multivariate Statistics in Criminological Research (3 Credit Hours)
This course teaches multivariate statistical techniques to train criminal justice researchers and policy makers to explore the causes and consequences of crime and criminal justices policies.  Although the exact statistical techniques covered may vary, they will typically include multiple regression, multiple discriminate analysis, logistic regression, factor analysis, cluster analysis and path analysis.
CRIM 810 Qualitative Methods in Criminology and Criminal Justice (3 Credit Hours)
The central goal of this graduate seminar is to enable students to create and critique qualitative research designs focused on contemporary issues in criminology and criminal justice.  A number of qualitative approaches will be covered including field observational research, focused interviews, case studies and content analysis.  The seminar explores techniques, strengths and limitations of these varied qualitative methodologies.
CRIM 811 Interviewing and Ethnography (3 Credit Hours)
This course focuses on the methodological, practical, and theoretical considerations involved in designing interview-based or ethnographic research studies. Practical in its approach, students will leave this course with the necessary skills, competencies, and instruments/protocols necessary to complete data collection for an interview-based or ethnographic project.
CRIM 815 Advanced Quantitative Techniques in Criminology & Criminal Justice (3 Credit Hours)
This course explores advanced statistical techniques commonly used in research on crime and justice.  The major focus of the course is hierarchical linear modeling (HLM), a diverse set of techniques that extend standard multivariate analysis to accommodate nested data.  Other advanced techniques are also covered: event history/survival models, time series, etc.
CRIM 820 Advanced Research Methods in Criminology & Criminal Justice (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides students with advanced understanding of issues in criminology/criminal justice research including:   history, philosophy, sociology, epistemology, politics and ethics of social science research; methodological questions of reliability, validity, conceptualization, operationalization, scale construction, data collection methodologies, sampling.
CRIM 830 Corrections (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines issues surrounding jail and prison environments in the U.S. Topics include the philosophy of incarceration, inmate rights, inmate (mal)adaptation, misconduct, inmate and correctional officer safety and well-being, classification, rehabilitative programming, and evidence-based solutions and scholarly opportunities aimed at improving the experience of both inmates and staff.
CRIM 840 Social Structures, Crime and Justice (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the links between social structures and institutions, and justice at the individual, neighborhood, city, state and country levels. Students explore the ways in which structures and institutions are both agents of social control and facilitators or initiators of crime. Emphasis will be placed on theories, methodologies and empirical assessments.
CRIM 845 Crime and Communities (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides a foundation of the most important theories and research relating to residential communities and crime. The casual linkages between features of neighborhoods and social disorder will be explored in the context of criminological theories. Students will emerge with sufficient knowledge to develop a class or design a significant research project.
CRIM 848 Queer Communities, Crime, and Victimization (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides a systematic introduction to the study of queer communities in criminology and criminal justice, while still drawing from diverse academic disciplines, such as sociology, history, and women’s, gender, and sexuality studies. We will first explore the contexts of LGBTQ individuals’ criminalized conduct across time and space, as well as our guiding theoretical lens. We will critically interrogate existing literatures on queer peoples’ victimization as well as their offending. Finally, we will explore emerging public health and education concerns.
CRIM 850 Crimes of the State (3 Credit Hours)
This course explores crimes of the state from a sociological and criminological perspective by examining historical and current cases of governmental crime. This course covers the history, theory and method of the field; controls of and constraints on state crime; and cases of state crime.
CRIM 855 Researching the Criminal Justice System (3 Credit Hours)
Students develop original research projects focusing on the criminal justice system, police, courts and/or corrections.  Projects are designed to culminate in a publishable paper.
CRIM 860 Life Course Criminology (3 Credit Hours)
This course is designed to introduce graduate students to life-course perspectives for understanding crime and deviant behavior.  Students discuss the various methodologies, both quantitative and qualitative, most commonly found in studies of the life course today.
CRIM 861 Gender and Crime (3 Credit Hours)
This course provides a systematic introduction to the study of gender and crime. We first explore theories, trends, patterns, and pathways, which include gendered contexts of risk, victimization, and offending. We also explore the role of the state, such as in regulating reproduction or in furthering criminalization and surveillance through institutions such as schools, the crimino-legal system, and carceral settings. Other topics, including the experiences of women in criminal justice occupations, are also discussed.
CRIM 890 Professional Development and Dissertation Seminar (3 Credit Hours)
This course enhances the process of professionalization of students by supporting ongoing dissertation progress as well as preparing the student for publishing, grant writing, and the job market.
CRIM 895 Topics in Criminal Justice (1-3 Credit Hours)
Topics vary by semester.
CRIM 897 Independent Study (1-3 Credit Hours)
Supervised study arranged with an instructor and approved by the graduate program director.
CRIM 899 Dissertation (1-9 Credit Hours)
Dissertation hours.
CRIM 998 Master's Graduate Credit (1 Credit Hour)
This course is a pass/fail course for master's students in their final semester. It may be taken to fulfill the registration requirement necessary for graduation.  All master's students are required to be registered for at least one graduate credit hour in the semester of their graduation.
CRIM 999 Doctoral Graduate Credit (1 Credit Hour)
This course is a pass/fail course doctoral students may take to maintain active status after successfully passing the candidacy examination.  All doctoral students are required to be registered for at least one graduate credit hour every semester until their graduation.
Sociology (SOC)
SOC 500 War and Gender (3 Credit Hours)
In this course students grapple with issues concerning war, gender roles, and gender inequality.  The course addresses gender roles in war throughout history, globally and across cultures.  However, the United States military and military involvement in the 20th and 21st century will remain the primary focus areas.  Discussions include how social norms and ideals of masculinity and femininity shape, and in turn are shaped by, images and realities of war, including gendered aspects of nationalism and just war theories.  The military involvement of men, women (and children) in war and in peacetime, as participants and observers, perpetrators and victims, supporters and opponents of war is also discussed.
SOC 502 Sociology of Child Welfare (3 Credit Hours)
A sociological analysis of the field of child welfare.  Topics include social inequality as it applies to children as a group in the U.S. and globally; understanding violence against children within the global context of children's rights; examining data on the degree to which policies, programs and research in the field fail to protect children and why; prevalence, causes and consequences of child sexual, physical and emotional abuse and neglect; evaluation of programs like 'family preservation' and placement in 'substitute' care, i.e. foster care, adoption, institutionalization; changes that would protect and advance the interests and rights of children at the parent-child, agency and societal level.
SOC 505 Social Change and Social Movements (3 Credit Hours)
Analysis of the nature and causes of social change, major social movements, and their impact upon contemporary society.
SOC 521 Deviant Behavior (3 Credit Hours)
A study of various definitions and forms of deviant behavior, theoretical explanations of causes of deviant behavior and the impact of deviant behavior on society and the individual.
SOC 523 Women, Health and Healing (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of women's experiences with health and illness and women's roles in the health-care system as patients and care providers from a feminist sociological perspective.
SOC 526 Minority Group Relations (3 Credit Hours)
The study of the process of and responses to the oppression of racial, religious, ethnic, and national minorities in a variety of countries within a historical and comparative perspective.  Special emphasis given to American minorities and especially African Americans.
SOC 527 Gender-Based Violence (3 Credit Hours)
This course takes an expansive and intersectional approach to studying various forms of gender-based violence, from the interpersonal to the systemic, institutional, and cultural. Prevalence, risk factors, theoretical explanations, and legal remedies related to topics such as intimate partner violence, sexual assault on college campuses, gender-based violence in the military, sexual violence against undocumented immigrants, commercial sexual exploitation, and racism and reproductive health will be examined.
SOC 540 Health, Illness, and Society (3 Credit Hours)
The study of health, illness and society.  After exploring how health is conceptualized by the prevailing allopathic medical model, an emergent alternative or "integrative" health perspective is examined with a focus on how wellbeing may be understood.
SOC 541 Drugs and Society (3 Credit Hours)
Topics include changes in the legal status of drugs, cross-cultural and historical variations in the control and use of drugs, and social epidemiology of drug use in contemporary society.
SOC 595 Topics in Sociology (3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics designed to permit qualified students to work on subjects of mutual interest which, due to their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly.  These courses will appear in the course schedule, and will be more fully described in information distributed to academic advisors.
SOC 596 Topics in Sociology (3 Credit Hours)
The advanced study of selected topics designed to permit students to work on subjects of mutual interest which, due to their specialized nature, may not be offered regularly.  These courses will appear in the course schedule, and will be more fully described in information distributed to academic advisors.
SOC 597 Tutorial Work in Special Topics in Sociology (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor.  Conferences and papers as appropriate.
SOC 598 Tutorial Work in Special Topics in Sociology (1-3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor.  Conferences and papers as appropriate.
SOC 610 Applied Social Research Methods (3 Credit Hours)
The application of social science methods to practical problems.  The topics of research design, measurement, scaling, sampling, data collection, and research organization are taught with reference to issues of reliability, validity and ethical concerns.
SOC 615 Perspectives on Racial Inequality (3 Credit Hours)
This course explores racial inequality in the United States.  The course is organized by the question: “Why, in 21st Century United States, are there still different social outcomes for the descendants of American slaves and descendants of European immigrants?”  Students are given a selection of materials from a variety of perspectives attempting to answer the question.
SOC 620 Proseminar in Sociological Theory (3 Credit Hours)
An examination of classical and contemporary sociological theories about the relations between the individual and society; the ways theory shapes and informs the study of social issues; and the relationship among theory, research and practice.
SOC 627 Violence Against Women (3 Credit Hours)
This course examines the many ways in which violence against women functions as an agent of social control. Violence is viewed on a continuum in order to determine how a variety of acts contribute to the subordination of women.  Specific types of violence are explored including:  wife assault, rape, incest, sexual harassment and pornography.
SOC 630 Applied Social Statistics (3 Credit Hours)
This course is a graduate-level introduction to social statistics as they may be applied to various practical problems.  Students will learn the appropriate use of various statistical procedures through discussion and application.
Prerequisites: SOC 610
SOC 640 Sociological Application of Computer and Data Analysis (3 Credit Hours)
This course is a graduate-level introduction to the use of the computer in problems of data management and analysis.  Students will use existing software packages (e.g, SPSS, SAS) to build specified data files and carry out various statistical procedures.
Prerequisites: SOC 610
SOC 650 Research Seminar (3 Credit Hours)
This seminar integrates the skills needed to complete a master's thesis.  Exercises include formulating research questions, developing a research design, and writing a publishable paper.  Students practice these skills assignments in class and by completing their thesis proposal.
Prerequisites: SOC 610 , SOC 620 or CRJS 620 , SOC 630 , and SOC 640
SOC 668 Internship (3 Credit Hours)
Students gain first-hand experience in professional settings which are deemed appropriate given their academic background and career objectives.  Students will be required to complete a research project which corresponds to their specific internship placement.
Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor
SOC 695 Topics of Sociology (3 Credit Hours)
Topics vary each semester.
SOC 696 Topics of Sociology (3 Credit Hours)
Topics vary each semester.
SOC 697 Independent Study in Special Topics in Sociology (3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor.  Conferences and papers as appropriate.
Prerequisites: Approval of the department chair
SOC 698 Independent Study in Special Topics in Sociology (3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor.  Conferences and papers as appropriate.
Prerequisites: Approval of the department chair
SOC 699 Thesis (3-9 Credit Hours)
Credit hours to continue thesis work.
SOC 795 Topics in Sociology (3 Credit Hours)
Topics vary by semester.
Prerequisites: Six hours of graduate credit
SOC 797 Independent Study in Sociology (3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor.
Prerequisites: Approval of department chair and 6 hours of graduate credit
SOC 895 Topics in Sociology (3 Credit Hours)
Topics vary by semester.
Prerequisites: Six hours of graduate credit
SOC 897 Independent Study in Sociology (3 Credit Hours)
Independent reading and study on a topic to be selected under the direction of an instructor.
Prerequisites: Approval of department chair and 6 hours of graduate credit
SOC 998 Master's Graduate Credit (1 Credit Hour)
This course is a pass/fail course for master's students in their final semester. It may be taken to fulfill the registration requirement necessary for graduation.  All master's students are required to be registered for at least one graduate credit hour in the semester of their graduation.
SOC 999 Doctoral Graduate Credit (1 Credit Hour)
This course is a pass/fail course doctoral students may take to maintain active status after successfully passing the candidacy examination.  All doctoral students are required to be registered for at least one graduate credit hour every semester until their graduation.
Search catalog
