$18  — Paid each semester, regardless of the number of classes taken
ID Card Fee
$4  — Paid each semester, regardless of the number of classes taken
Course Technology Fee
$30 per credit hour — For each technology-delivered course
Additional fees apply for courses taken at main campus. For full details about ODU tuition and fees, click here .
For general questions about tuition, contact ODU's Office of Finance at 757-683-3030 or tuition@odu.edu .
Using Your Tuition Assistance
Active duty military members should seek approval from their Education Services Officer (ESO), military counselor, or service branch prior to enrollment.
Each branch of service sets its own criteria to determine eligibility for the program and has its own application process.
Tuition Assistance Process by Branch
Non-degree or first-time GI Bill®
If you are a “non-degree seeking” student, or a first-time GI Bill® user, please contact ODU Veterans Services at 757-683-4425 or email vaservices@odu.edu .
Information on the return of unearned Tuition Assistance (TA) funds
MEM by Portable Media Course Payments
GI Bill® Benefits
If you are working on the MEM by Portable Media , and you indicate that you will be using a GI Bill® chapter on your course registration, that information is automatically forwarded to ODU Veterans Services for certification.
Tuition and fees for MEM certified for Post 9/11 GI Bill® Chapter 33 are paid directly to ODU from the VA.
MEM courses approved for other GI Bill® Chapters (30 and 31) must be paid in full at the time of registration. These costs are reimbursed to you by the VA. Once payments are submitted by the VA or by the student, these funds are applied to reach a zero balance in your student account. You can view your student account balance in LEO Online .
Student Loans
Student loans/deferments must be approved before registering for courses. Ensure that your selected course term dates fall within ODU regular semester dates (term will be indicated on the registration form).
Financial Aid Resources
Military-affiliated students have specific needs when it comes to tuition. We can help you make the most out of your military benefits, and maybe take advantage of scholarships if they apply to you.
Scholarships
